{\rtf \li0 \fi0 \sl240 \slmult1 \sa240 {\b{}(5) Legal Emblems and the Art of Law}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.academia.edu/77281701/Legal_Emblems_and_the_Art_of_Law>. Acesso em: 21 maio. 2025. \
{\b{}7 FAM 1200 APPENDIX E LOSS OF NATIONALITY OF MARRIED WOMEN UNDER THE ACT OF 1907 AND SUCCESSOR STATUTES}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://fam.state.gov/fam/07fam/07fam1200apE.html>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023. \
{\b{}19&20 - A festa da imagem: a afirma\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o da escultura p\uc0\u250{}blica no Brasil do s\uc0\u233{}culo XIX, por Paulo Knauss}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <http://www.dezenovevinte.net/obras/pknauss.htm>. Acesso em: 9 set. 2025. \
{\b{}A Fabrica\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o do Vis\uc0\u237{}vel: Como as Imagens Constituem a Realidade Social a Partir da Antropologia de Philippe Descola}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1cdkTAMAHxsftzNty7TQFnzs1ihxhdrLcHBR_94seYxo/edit?usp=embed_facebook>. Acesso em: 3 jan. 2026. \
{\b{}A Global History of Ideas in the Language of Law}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.lhlt.mpg.de/publications/gplh-16>. Acesso em: 13 dez. 2025. \
{\b{}A institui\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o imagin\uc0\u225{}ria da sociedade - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/ae7bc3615f214306df54f104b1294bcc>. Acesso em: 25 out. 2025. \
{\b{}A Nation of Neighborhoods: Imagining Cities, Communities, and Democracy in Postwar America (Historical Studies of Urban America) - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.se/md5/d348e3863e224fb1ca7b9195f1e2382d>. Acesso em: 3 jan. 2026. \
{\b{}A Passagem do Tr\uc0\u234{}s ao Um | Leopold Waizbort | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://z-lib.gl/book/25424612/ebc9e8/a-passagem-do-tr%C3%AAs-ao-um.html?ts=0522>. Acesso em: 5 dez. 2024. \
{\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality Volume 1: Comparative Analyses: Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. \
{\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 2: Country Analyses: Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. \
ADDE, \uc0\u201{}lo\uc0\u239{}se. The Comparative Development of Nationality Law. {\b{}Revue de l\uc0\u8217{}IFHA. Revue de l\uc0\u8217{}Institut fran\uc0\u231{}ais d\uc0\u8217{}histoire en Allemagne}, n. 2, p. 79\uc0\u8211{}83, 1 jan. 2010. \
ADDISON, Joseph. {\b{}Dialogues upon the usefulness of ancient medals. Especially in relation to the Latin and Greek poets.  1773}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
{\b{}Aesthetics\uc0\u8239{}: lectures on fine art | Hegel, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich, 1770-1831 | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://z-lib.fm/book/119892439/9e86df>. Acesso em: 8 nov. 2025. \
{\b{}Aesthetics. Vol. 1: lectures on fine art - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/92e739b91d50d0ccdbf90c57e9423497>. Acesso em: 8 nov. 2025. \
AHMED, Muhammed. Adjudicating Patriarchy in the Nationality Law. {\b{}Theses and Dissertations}, 15 jun. 2021. \
AKCASU, A. Ebru. Nation and Migration in Late-Ottoman Spheres of (Legal) Belonging: A Comparative Look at Laws on Nationality. {\b{}Nationalities Papers}, v. 49, n. 6, p. 1113\uc0\u8211{}1131, nov. 2021. \
AKITA, Kazuyoshi. The Resumption of Citizenship Lost by Marriage to Aliens. 1952. \
ALBAHARI, Miri. Insight Knowledge of No Self in Buddhism: An Epistemic Analysis. v. 14, n. 21, 2014. \
ALCOFF, Linda; POTTER, Elizabeth (ORGS.). {\b{}Feminist Epistemologies}. New York: Routledge, 1992. \
{\b{}Alegorias Republicanas}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.portaldoselo.com.br/alegorias-republicanas>. Acesso em: 9 set. 2025. \
ALESSIO, Dominic David. Domesticating \uc0\u8216{}the heart of the wild\uc0\u8217{}: female personifications of the colonies, 1886-1940\super [1]\nosupersub{}. {\b{}Women\uc0\u8217{}s History Review}, v. 6, n. 2, p. 239\uc0\u8211{}270, jun. 1997a. \
ALESSIO, Dominic David. Domesticating \uc0\u8216{}the heart of the wild\uc0\u8217{}: female personifications of the colonies, 1886-1940\super [1]\nosupersub{}. {\b{}Women\uc0\u8217{}s History Review}, v. 6, n. 2, p. 239\uc0\u8211{}270, jun. 1997b. \
{\b{}Allegorien - Warum sind so viele weiblich? | Cillie (C\uc0\u228{}cilia) Rentmeister: Publikationen}. , {\i{}[S.d.]}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.cillie-rentmeister.de/themen/berufsverbot-fur-die-musen/>. Acesso em: 21 set. 2025\
{\b{}Allegories of empire\uc0\u8239{}: the figure of woman in the colonial text - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/8b85f6c0ef9a5b606c5102c58811b684>. Acesso em: 16 set. 2025. \
{\b{}Allegories of Transgression and Transformation\uc0\u8239{}: Experimental Fiction by Women Writing Under Dictatorship - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/b27bbd528289c075aacba307ee1a5c1a>. Acesso em: 28 set. 2025a. \
{\b{}Allegories of Transgression and Transformation\uc0\u8239{}: Experimental Fiction by Women Writing Under Dictatorship - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/b27bbd528289c075aacba307ee1a5c1a>. Acesso em: 16 set. 2025b. \
{\b{}al-Ma\uc0\u8217{}arri}. , 19 set. 2025. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
ALONSO, William. Citizenship, Nationality and Other Identities. {\b{}Journal of International Affairs}, v. 48, n. 2, p. 585\uc0\u8211{}599, 1995. \
AMOROSA, Paolo. Pioneering International Women\uc0\u8217{}s Rights? The US National Woman\uc0\u8217{}s Party and the 1933 Montevideo Equal Rights Treaties. {\b{}European Journal of International Law}, v. 30, n. 2, p. 415\uc0\u8211{}437, 22 jul. 2019. \
AMOS, Maurice. The Code Napol\uc0\u233{}on and the Modern World. {\b{}Journal of Comparative Legislation and International Law}, v. 10, n. 4, p. 222\uc0\u8211{}236, 1928. \
{\b{}An Anthropology of Images: Picture, Medium, Body (2014) - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/13a02fb969d24f07e00b70d43c6dfb09>. Acesso em: 30 ago. 2025. \
{\b{}An encyclopedic outline of Masonic, Hermetic, Qabbalistic, and Rosicrucian symbolical philosophy: being an interpretation of the secret teachings concealed within the rituals, allegories, and mysteries of all ages - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/9935a72dec03e8efb115350acec08198>. Acesso em: 16 set. 2025. \
ANONYMOUS. {\b{}The history of naturalization with some remarques upon the effects thereof, in respect to the religion, trade and safety of His Majesties dominions. Printed according to order.} London: {\i{}[S.n.]}. p. 4 p.\
ANONYMOUS. {\b{}Some seasonable queries, on the third head, viz. A general naturalization}. London: {\i{}[S.n.]}. p. 4 p.\
ANTIGONE. {\b{}To Love Sorrowfully: Poetry and War}. {\b{}Antigone}, 7 maio 2022a. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://antigonejournal.com/2022/05/poetry-war-weil-segal/>. Acesso em: 22 set. 2025\
ANTIGONE. {\b{}The Classic Classic? Antigone Hits 250}. {\b{}Antigone}, 22 nov. 2022b. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://antigonejournal.com/2022/11/favourite-classics/>. Acesso em: 22 set. 2025\
ANTUNES DE OLIVEIRA, Felipe; KVANGRAVEN, Ingrid Harvold. Back to Dakar: Decolonizing international political economy through dependency theory. {\b{}Review of International Political Economy}, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}25, 13 mar. 2023a. \
ANTUNES DE OLIVEIRA, Felipe; KVANGRAVEN, Ingrid Harvold. Back to Dakar: Decolonizing international political economy through dependency theory. {\b{}Review of International Political Economy}, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}25, 13 mar. 2023b. \
{\b{}\uc0\u8220{}Any woman who is now or may hereafter be married . . .\uc0\u8221{}} Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.archives.gov/publications/prologue/1998/summer/women-and-naturalization-1.html>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023. \
{\b{}Appropriating Bourdieu: Feminist Theory and Pierre Bourdieu\uc0\u8217{}s Sociology of Culture on JSTOR}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.jstor.org/stable/469077?typeAccessWorkflow=login>. Acesso em: 14 out. 2023. \
ARENA, Marta; NASCIMBENE, Bruno; ZINCONE, Giovanna. Italy. {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 2: Country Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 329\uc0\u8211{}366. \
{\b{}Arkyves}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.arkyves.org/r/view/gri217685_emblem108/all>. Acesso em: 31 ago. 2025. \
{\b{}Art History: Divine Icons and Mortal Beings: Portrayals of Women in the Middle Ages}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.bowdoin.edu/coursework/art-history/class-exhibitions/arth1710/project1.html>. Acesso em: 2 jan. 2026. \
ARTE, Lendo a Hist\uc0\u243{}ria da. {\b{}O que disse Camille Paglia sobre D\uc0\u237{}ptico de Marilyn de Andy Warhol?} {\b{}Lendo a Hist\uc0\u243{}ria da Arte}, 29 abr. 2024. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://lendoahistoriadaarte.com/2024/04/29/o-que-disse-camille-paglia-sobre-diptico-de-marilyn-de-andy-warhol/>. Acesso em: 21 set. 2025\
ARVIND, Tt; STIRTON, Lindsay. Explaining the reception of the Code Napoleon in Germany: a fuzzy-set qualitative comparative analysis. {\b{}Legal Studies}, v. 30, n. 1, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}29, mar. 2010. \
{\b{}As publica\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u245{}es dos positivistas religiosos brasileiros sobre quest\uc0\u245{}es m\uc0\u233{}dico-sanit\uc0\u225{}rias (1885-1927)}. {\b{}N\uc0\u250{}cleo de Documenta\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o Hist\uc0\u243{}rica da UFPel}, 8 fev. 2022. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://wp.ufpel.edu.br/ndh/folelhos_positivistas/>. Acesso em: 7 set. 2025\
ASSISTANT. {\b{}Continent Allegories in the Baroque Age \uc0\u8211{} A Database}. Text. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.journal18.org/issue5/continent-allegories-in-the-baroque-age-a-database/>. Acesso em: 5 dez. 2025. \
AT 16:54, Italian students are rising up against exploitation-\uc0\u55356{}\uc0\u57332{} Anarchist Federation Author 2022-03-27. {\b{}Carla Lonzi | Let\uc0\u8217{}s Spit on Hegel}. {\b{}BLACKOUT ((poetry & politics))}, 18 nov. 2020. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://my-blackout.com/2020/11/18/carla-lonzi-lets-spit-on-hegel/>. Acesso em: 19 out. 2025\
AUERBACH, Erich. {\b{}Figura}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
AUGUSTINE-ADAMS, Kif. \uc0\u8220{}SHE CONSENTS IMPLICITLY\uc0\u8221{}: Women\uc0\u8217{}s Citizenship, Marriage, and Liberal Political Theory in Late-Nineteenth- and Early-Twentieth-Century Argentina. {\b{}Journal of Women\uc0\u8217{}s History}, v. 13, n. 4, p. 8, Winter2002 2002. \
AZEVEDO, Francisco Ferreira dos Santos. {\b{}Dicion\uc0\u225{}rio anal\uc0\u243{}gico da l\uc0\u237{}ngua portuguesa: ideias afins/ thesaurus}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: LEXIKON Editora, 2019. \
BACHOFEN, Johann Jakob; MANHEIM, Ralph; BACHOFEN, Johann Jakob. {\b{}Myth, Religion, and Mother Right}. Princeton, NJ: Princeton Univ. Press, 1992. \
BACKHAUS, Jurgen G.; STEPHEN, Frank H. The Code Napoleon after 200 years Legacy. {\b{}European Journal of Law and Economics}, v. 14, n. 3, p. 191\uc0\u8211{}192, 2002. \
BALALLE, Himendra; PANNILAGE, Sachini. Reassessing academic integrity in the age of AI: A systematic literature review on AI and academic integrity. {\b{}Social Sciences & Humanities Open}, v. 11, p. 101299, 1 jan. 2025. \
BALDWIN, M. Page. Subject to Empire: Married Women and the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act. {\b{}Journal of British Studies}, v. 40, n. 4, p. 522\uc0\u8211{}556, 2001a. \
BALDWIN, M. Page. Subject to Empire: Married Women and the British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act. {\b{}Journal of British Studies}, v. 40, n. 4, p. 522\uc0\u8211{}556, out. 2001b. \
BARBOSA, Maria Aparecida. Leitura do Matriarcado de Bachofen. {\b{}Revista Brasileira de Literatura Comparada}, v. 20, n. 33, p. 88\uc0\u8211{}97, 20 mar. 2018. \
BARCHI, Felipe Yera. Mudan\uc0\u231{}as na representa\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o iconogr\uc0\u225{}fica do Brasil entre a Belle \uc0\u201{}poque Tropical e o Modernismo (1900-1945). {\b{}CECIL. Cahiers d\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u233{}tudes des cultures ib\uc0\u233{}riques et latino-am\uc0\u233{}ricaines}, n. 7, 1 jan. 2021. \
BASKINS, Cristelle L. Gender Trouble in Italian Renaissance Art History: Two Case Studies. {\b{}Studies in Iconography}, v. 16, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}36, 1994. \
BATCHELOR, Carol A. Transforming International Legal Principles into National Law: The Right to a Nationality and the Avoidance of Statelessness. {\b{}Refugee Survey Quarterly}, v. 25, n. 3, p. 8\uc0\u8211{}25, 2006. \
BATHOLINI, Ignazia. Il ruolo delle donne nell\uc0\u8217{}accoglienza e nell\uc0\u8217{}inclusione dei migranti. Tratteggi di un\uc0\u8217{}agency al femminile. {\b{}Societ\uc0\u224{}MutamentoPolitica}, p. 193\uc0\u8211{}203, 2020. \
BATIZA, Rodolfo. Louisiana Civil Code of 1808:  Its Actual Sources and Present Relevance. {\b{}Tulane Law Review}, v. 46, n. 1, p. 4\uc0\u8211{}165, 1972 1971. \
BATLAN, Felice. \uc0\u8220{}SHE WAS SURPRISED AND FURIOUS\uc0\u8221{}: EXPATRIATION, SUFFRAGE, IMMIGRATION, AND THE FRAGILITY OF WOMEN\uc0\u8217{}S CITIZENSHIP, 1907-1940. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
{\b{}Battle for Births: The Fascist Pronatalist Campaign in Italy 1925 to 1938 - Forcucci - 2010 - Journal of the Society for the Anthropology of Europe - Wiley Online Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://anthrosource.onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/abs/10.1111/j.1556-5823.2010.00002.x>. Acesso em: 18 set. 2024. \
BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer (ORG.). {\b{}Migration and citizenship: legal status, rights and political participation}. Amsterdam: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. \
BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer (ORG.). {\b{}Debating Transformations of National Citizenship}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2018. \
BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer; PERCHINIG, Bernhard. Evaluation and recommendations. {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 431\uc0\u8211{}478. \
BAZZANO, Nicoletta. Donna Italia. L\uc0\u8217{}allegoria della Penisola dall\uc0\u8217{}antichit\uc0\u224{} ai giorni nostri, Costabissara (Vi), Angelo Colla editore, 2011. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
BECKER, Anna. {\b{}Gendering the Renaissance Commonwealth}. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2020. \
BECKER, Colleen. \uc0\u8216{}Aby Warburg\uc0\u8217{}s Pathosformel as methodological paradigm\uc0\u8217{}. {\b{}Journal of Art Historiography}, v. 9, p. 9-CB1, 1 dez. 2013. \
BELLINO, Emma. Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Nationality and the White Australia Policy, 1920-1948. {\b{}law&history}, v. 7, n. 1, p. 166\uc0\u8211{}192, 2020. \
BELLIZZI, Saverio; NIVOLI, Alessandra. Gender discrimination in nationality laws: A systemic type of violence against women. {\b{}International Journal of Gynecology & Obstetrics}, v. 163, n. 1, p. 323\uc0\u8211{}324, 2023. \
{\b{}Benjamin and Hegel. A Constellation in Metaphysics (CWB (constel\uc0\u183{}lacions)) - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/334a9ca493737e2f32cd232cae10cb2f>. Acesso em: 8 nov. 2025. \
{\b{}Benjamin Constant; esbo\uc0\u231{}o de uma aprecia\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o sint\uc0\u233{}tica da vida e da \uc0\u243{}bra do fundador da Rep\uc0\u250{}blica brazileira, por R. Teixeira Mendes. - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/712609c727b595b5f2fa932d2359bfe8>. Acesso em: 7 set. 2025. \
BERDAH, Jean-Fran\uc0\u231{}ois. {\b{}Citizenship and National Identity in France from the French Revolution to the Present}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Edizioni Plus, 2006a. \
BERDAH, Jean-Fran\uc0\u231{}ois. {\b{}Citizenship and National Identity in France from the French Revolution to the Present}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Edizioni Plus, 2006b. \
BERGOLD, Laurel R. The Changing Legal Status of American Women. {\b{}Current History}, v. 70, n. 416, p. 206\uc0\u8211{}231, 1976. \
BERNITZ, Hedvig Lokrantz; BERNITZ, Henrik. Sweden. {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 2: Country Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 517\uc0\u8211{}550. \
BERTOCCHI, Graziella; STROZZI, Chiara. The Evolution of Citizenship: Economic and Institutional Determinants. {\b{}The Journal of Law and Economics}, v. 53, n. 1, p. 95\uc0\u8211{}136, fev. 2010. \
BESSETTE, Irene. French Civil Law System Since 1804. {\b{}Law Libary Journal}, v. 73, n. 2, p. 336\uc0\u8211{}353, 1980. \
{\b{}Between Kant and Hegel\uc0\u8239{}: Lectures on German Idealism - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/ff1c8f484473dfda3e44194a58c29dcd>. Acesso em: 24 nov. 2025. \
BIBLIOKLEPT. {\b{}Reading/Have Read/Should Write About}. {\b{}Biblioklept}, 7 nov. 2014. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://biblioklept.org/2014/11/07/readinghave-readshould-write-about-3/>. Acesso em: 17 out. 2025\
BICKNELL, Bero\uc0\u235{}. The Nationality of Married Women. {\b{}Transactions of the Grotius Society}, v. 20, p. 106\uc0\u8211{}122, 1934. \
{\b{}Bild Anthropologie Entwurfe Fur Bildwissenschaft by Hans Belting - AbeBooks}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.abebooks.com/book-search/title/bild-anthropologie-entwurfe-fur-bildwissenschaft/author/hans-belting/>. Acesso em: 14 jun. 2025. \
BLAKE, Charles. Citizenship, Law and the State: The British Nationality Act 1981. {\b{}The Modern Law Review}, v. 45, n. 2, p. 179\uc0\u8211{}197, 1982. \
BOATC\uc0\u258{}, Manuela. Women on the Fast Track? Coloniality of Citizenship and Embodied Social Mobility. {\b{}Samuel Cohn &amp; Rae Blumberg (Eds.) Gender and Development: The Economic Basis for Women&#39;s Power. London: Sage}, 1 jan. 2018. \
BOATC\uc0\u258{}, Manuela; ROTH, Julia. Unequal and gendered. Notes on the coloniality of citizenship. {\b{}Current Sociology}, v. 64, 1 mar. 2016. \
BOATC\uc0\u258{}, Manuela; ROTH, Julia. Unequal and Gendered: Notes on the Coloniality of Citizenship. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
BOAVENTURA, Maria Eugenia. O projeto pau brasil: nacionalismo e inventividade. {\b{}Remate de Males}, v. 6, p. 45\uc0\u8211{}52, 1986. \
BOECHARD, Edwin M. The Citizenship of Native-Born American Women who Married Foreigners Before March 2, 1907, And Acquired A Foreign Domicile. {\b{}American Journal of International Law}, v. 29, n. 3, p. 396\uc0\u8211{}422, jul. 1935. \
BOMBARA, Daniela {\i{}et al.} La Sicilia a firma femminile: uno sguardo diacronico e sincronico dal XV al XXI secolo, numero monografico di Rivista di Studi Italiani, n. 1, aprile 2020, a cura di Daniela Bombara, Milagro Martin Clavijo, Serena Todesco. {\b{}Rivista di Studi Italiani , n.1, aprile 2020}, 1 jan. 2020. \
BORCHARD, Edwin. Three Hague Conventions on Nationality. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 32, n. 1, p. 126\uc0\u8211{}128, 1938. \
BORGES, Jorge Luis. Jorge Luis Borges\uc0\u8217{}s Autobiographical Notes. {\b{}The New Yorker}, 12 set. 1970. \
BOSNIAK, Linda. Citizenship Denationalized. {\b{}Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies}, v. 7, n. 2, p. 447\uc0\u8211{}509, 2000. \
BOURDIEU, Pierre. The Force of Law: Toward a Sociology of the Juridical Field. {\b{}THE HASTINGS LAW JOURNAL}, v. 38, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
BOURDIEU, Pierre; BOURDIEU, Pierre. {\b{}Masculine domination}. 1. publ ed. Cambridge: Polity Press, 2001. \
BRANT, Leonardo Nemer Caldeira; BIAZATTI, Bruno de Oliveira. A forma\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o do costume internacional na atualidade. {\b{}Revista da Escola Superior da Magistratura do Estado do Cear\uc0\u225{}}, v. 15, n. 1, p. 125\uc0\u8211{}169, 2017. \
BREDBENNER, Candice Lewis. A Nationality of Her Own. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
BRENNAN, Deirdre. Feminist Foresight in Statelessness: Century-Old Citizenship Equality Campaigns. {\b{}Statelessness & Citizenship Review}, v. 2, n. 1, p. 43\uc0\u8211{}63, 29 jun. 2020. \
BRENNAN, T. Corey. {\b{}The Fasces: A History of Ancient Rome\uc0\u8217{}s Most Dangerous Political Symbol}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Oxford University Press, 2023. \
{\b{}British Nationality and Status of Aliens Act 1914}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.legislation.gov.uk/ukpga/Geo5/4-5/17/part/III/crossheading/national-status-of-married-women-and-infant-children/enacted?view=plain>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023. \
BROUDE, Norma; GARRARD, Mary D. (ORGS.). {\b{}Reclaiming Female Agency: Feminist Art History after Postmodernism}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
BROUWER, Jerome de. La Belgique aux pieds de la Justice: repr\uc0\u233{}sentations du monde judiciaire et des comportements populaires lors de l\uc0\u8217{}inauguration du Palais de Justice de Bruxelles (15 octobre 1883). {\b{}Figures de Justice. Etudes en l\uc0\u8217{}honneur de Jean-Pierre Royer, Lille, Centre d\uc0\u8217{}histoire judiciaire, 2004, pp.469-480}, 21 jun. 2023. \
B\uc0\u220{}CKEN, Luca; DE GROOT, Ren\uc0\u233{}. Deprivation of nationality under article 8 (3) of the 1961 Convention on the reduction of statelessness. {\b{}Maastricht Journal of European and Comparative Law}, v. 25, n. 1, p. 38\uc0\u8211{}51, 1 fev. 2018. \
BUDIONO, Arief; ISNANDAR, Aries; INDIANTORO, Alfalachu. Legal Settlement Policy in the Community of Sodong Ponorogo Village: A Comparison Between National Law and Alternative Disputed Resolution (ADR). {\b{}International Journal of Multicultural and Multireligious Understanding}, v. 8, n. 9, p. 411, 24 set. 2021. \
BURCH, S. {\b{}On stage at the theatre of state: the monuments and memorials in Parliament Square, London}. doctoral\uc0\u8212{}{\i{}[S.l.]}: Nottingham Trent University, 2003.\
BUSS, Doris E. Queering International Legal Authority. {\b{}Proceedings of the Annual Meeting (American Society of International Law)}, v. 101, p. 122\uc0\u8211{}125, 2007. \
BUSSOTTI, Luca. A History of Italian Citizenship Laws during the Era of the Monarchy (1861-1946). {\b{}Advances in Historical Studies}, v. 05, n. 04, p. 143\uc0\u8211{}167, 2016. \
CALABR\uc0\u210{}, Vittoria. CITTADINI O STRANIERI? DIRITTI RICONOSCIUTI E LIBERT\uc0\u192{} NEGATE NEL REGNO D\uc0\u8217{}ITALIA (1865-1922). {\b{}Atti della Accademia Peloritana dei Pericolanti - Classe di Scienze Giuridiche, Economiche e Politiche}, v. 87, n. 0, p. 129\uc0\u8211{}152, 19 dez. 2018. \
CALDERAN, Valentina. {\b{}Donne che hanno fatto l\uc0\u8217{}Italia: Figure femminili di potere nella letteratura e nella riflessione intellettuale e politica del Risorgimento}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
CAMISCIOLI, Elisa. Intermarriage, Independent Nationality, and the Individual Rights of French Women: The Law of 10 August 1927. {\b{}French Politics, Culture & Society}, v. 17, n. 3/4, p. 52\uc0\u8211{}74, 1999. \
CAPPELLINI, Paolo. Voyage en Italie. Code Napoleon E Historiografia: Um Esbo\uc0\u231{}o Inacabado. {\b{}Revista Da Faculdade De Direito Da UFMG}, n. 74, 2019a. \
CAPPELLINI, Paolo. VOYAGE EN ITALIE. CODE NAPOLEON E HISTORIOGRAFIA: UM ESBO\uc0\u199{}O INACABADO. {\b{}Revista da Faculdade de Direito (Belo Horizonte, Brazil)}, n. 74, p. 537\uc0\u8211{}550, 2019b. \
CAPPELLINI, Paolo. VOYAGE EN ITALIE. CODE NAPOLEON E HISTORIOGRAFIA: UM ESBO\uc0\u199{}O INACABADO - DOI: 10.12818/P.0304-2340.2019v74p537. {\b{}REVISTA DA FACULDADE DE DIREITO DA UFMG}, n. 74, p. 537\uc0\u8211{}550, 18 jun. 2019c. \
CAPPELLINI, Paolo. Il diritto come esperienza.Ricordando Paolo Grossi. 2022. \
CARBONNIER, Jean. Le Code civil des Fran\uc0\u231{}ais a-t-il chang\uc0\u233{} la soci\uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} europ\uc0\u233{}enne? Programme pour une recherche sociologique sur l\uc0\u8217{}influence du Code de 1804. {\b{}Il Foro Italiano}, v. 98, n. 12, p. 257/258-261/262, 1975. \
CARILE, Maria Cristina. Holy icon or sacred body? The image of the emperor in the iconoclastic controversy. {\b{}Byzantine and Modern Greek Studies}, v. 48, n. 1, p. 42\uc0\u8211{}65, abr. 2024. \
CARVALHO, Jos\uc0\u233{} Murilo de. {\b{}A forma\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o das almas: O imagin\uc0\u225{}rio da Rep\uc0\u250{}blica no Brasil}. S\uc0\u227{}o Paulo: Companhia das Letras, 2005. \
CARVALHO DE\uc0\u160{}OSTOS, Natascha Stefania. \uc0\u171{}\uc0\u8239{}Terra adorada, m\uc0\u227{}e gentil\uc0\u8239{}\uc0\u187{}\uc0\u8239{}: l\uc0\u8217{}image de la nature et du f\uc0\u233{}minin dans la construction de l\uc0\u8217{}id\uc0\u233{}e de Br\uc0\u233{}sil-nation (1930-1945). {\b{}Cahiers des Am\uc0\u233{}riques latines}, n. 82, p. 155\uc0\u8211{}170, 13 dez. 2016. \
CASARI, Marco; LISCIANDRA, Maurizio. Gender Discrimination in Property Rights: Six Centuries of Commons Governance in the Alps. {\b{}The Journal of Economic History}, v. 76, n. 2, p. 559\uc0\u8211{}594, 2016. \
CASE, Mary Anne. The Ladies? Forget About Them. a Feminist Perspective on the Limits of Originalism. {\b{}Constitutional Commentary}, v. 29, n. 3, p. 431\uc0\u8211{}456, Summer 2014. \
{\b{}Category:Allegorical paintings by French artists}. , 10 mar. 2024. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
CATELLANI, Enrico. {\b{}Appendice al corso di Diritto internazionale dell\uc0\u8217{}anno accademico 1928- 29 aggiornata e completata secondo il programma svolto nell\uc0\u8217{}anno 1930-31 / Enrico Levi Catellani\uc0\u8239{}; a cura di Alvise Cappello e Giorgio Miliani}. Padova: CEDAM, 1931. \
{\b{}CECON JOANA D\uc0\u180{}ARC - Centro de Conviv\uc0\u234{}ncia}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://web.archive.org/web/20071105063642/http://www.ceconjoanadarc.org/principal.php?idSecao=878>. Acesso em: 24 nov. 2025. \
CERCHIARO, Marina Mazze. ESCULPINDO PARA O MINIST\uc0\u201{}RIO: {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
CHADWICK, Gillian. {\b{}Legitimating the Transnational Family}. Rochester, NY, 14 mar. 2018. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=3140235>. Acesso em: 12 jan. 2024\
CHAMBERS, C. E. Judging Women: Twenty-Five Years Further Toward a Feminist Theory of the State. 6 jul. 2017. \
CHAMBERS, David L. Civilizing the Natives: Marriage in Post-Apartheid South Africa. {\b{}Daedalus}, v. 129, n. 4, p. 101\uc0\u8211{}124, 2000. \
{\b{}Chapter 5 Defining the Right to Nationality in: The Human Right to Citizenship}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://brill.com/display/book/9789004517523/BP000005.xml>. Acesso em: 23 out. 2023. \
CHARAGEAT, Martine. Gender und Justiz. {\i{}In}: DECOCK, Wim (Org.). {\b{}Konfliktl\uc0\u246{}sung in der Fr\uc0\u252{}hen Neuzeit}. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer, 2021. p. 153\uc0\u8211{}161. \
CHEN, Chao-ju. Gendered Borders: The Historical Formation of Women\uc0\u8217{}s Nationality under Law in Taiwan. {\b{}positions: asia critique}, v. 17, n. 2, p. 289\uc0\u8211{}314, 1 maio 2009. \
CHEN, Lung-chu. The Equal Protection of Women in Reference to Nationality and Freedom of Movement. {\b{}Proceedings of the ASIL Annual Meeting}, v. 69, p. 18\uc0\u8211{}25, 1975. \
CHOPIN, Isabelle. Administrative practices in the acquisition of nationality. {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 221\uc0\u8211{}268. \
CHRISTOPOULOS, Dimitris. Greece. {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 2: Country Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 253\uc0\u8211{}288. \
CHRISTOU, Anastasia; KOFMAN, Eleonore. {\b{}Gender and Migration: IMISCOE Short Reader}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2022. \
\uc0\u199{}INAR, Dilek; WALDRAUCH, Harald. Austria. {\i{}In}: WALDRAUCH, Harald {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 2: Country Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 19\uc0\u8211{}62. \
CIXOUS, H\uc0\u233{}l\uc0\u232{}ne; COHEN, Keith; COHEN, Paula. The Laugh of the Medusa. {\b{}Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society}, v. 1, n. 4, p. 875\uc0\u8211{}893, jul. 1976. \
{\b{}\uc0\u8220{}Code Napoleon\uc0\u8221{}, Image 1 of 558 | MDZ}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.digitale-sammlungen.de/en/view/bsb10725288?page=,1>. Acesso em: 31 jan. 2023. \
COLLIN, Fran\uc0\u231{}oise. Le sujet et l\uc0\u8217{}auteur ou lire \uc0\u171{}\uc0\u8239{}l\uc0\u8217{}autre femme\uc0\u8239{}\uc0\u187{}. {\b{}Les cahiers du CEDREF. Centre d\uc0\u8217{}enseignement, d\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u233{}tudes et de recherches pour les \uc0\u233{}tudes f\uc0\u233{}ministes}, n. 2, p. 9\uc0\u8211{}20, 1 jan. 1990. \
COLLINS, Kristin. Representing Injustice: Justice as an Icon of Woman Suffrage. {\b{}Yale Journal of Law & the Humanities}, v. 24, n. 1, p. 191, 1 jan. 2012. \
COLLINS, Kristin. Abolishing Ius Sanguinis Citizenship: A Proposal Too Restrained and Too Radical. {\b{}Debating Transformations of National Citizenship}, p. 103, 1 jan. 2018. \
COLLINS, Kristin. Representing Injustice: Justice as an Icon of Woman Suffrage. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
COLLINS, Kristin A. Illegitimate Borders: \uc0\u8220{}Jus Sanguinis\uc0\u8221{} Citizenship and the Legal Construction of Family, Race, and Nation. {\b{}The Yale Law Journal}, v. 123, n. 7, p. 2134\uc0\u8211{}2235, 2014. \
COMMITTEE, Nationality of Married Women Pass the Bill. Eight Reasons Why you Should Support the Nationality of Married Women Bill. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
COMMITTEE, Nationality of Married Women Pass the Bill. Nationality of Married Women. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
{\b{}COMPARATIVE REGIONAL REPORT ON CITIZENSHIP LAW: ANGLOPHONE CARIBBEAN}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://cadmus.eui.eu/bitstream/handle/1814/66909/RSC_GLOBALCIT_Comp_2020_03.pdf>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023. \
{\b{}COMPARATIVE REPORT: CITIZENSHIP IN ASIA}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://cadmus.eui.eu/bitstream/handle/1814/50047/RSCAS_GLOBALCIT_Comp_2017_04.pdf?sequence=1>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023. \
{\b{}Comunicado | Acordo de Reciprocidade OAP e o CFOAB}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://portal.oa.pt/comunicacao/comunicados/2023/comunicado-acordo-de-reciprocidade-oap-e-o-cfoab/>. Acesso em: 25 set. 2023. \
{\b{}Comunidades Imaginadas: Reflex\uc0\u245{}es Sobre a Origem E a Difus\uc0\u227{}o Do Nacionalismo}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Companhia das Letras, 2021. \
{\b{}Constitution de 1791 | Conseil constitutionnel}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.conseil-constitutionnel.fr/les-constitutions-dans-l-histoire/constitution-de-1791>. Acesso em: 21 abr. 2024. \
Convention on Certain Questions Relating to the Conflict of Nationality Laws. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 24, n. 3, p. 192\uc0\u8211{}200, 1930. \
COOPER, Terry L.; YODER, Diane E. The Meaning and Significance of Citizenship in a Transnational World: Implications for Public Administration. {\b{}Administrative Theory & Praxis}, v. 21, n. 2, p. 195\uc0\u8211{}204, 1999. \
CORIGLIANO, FABIO. \uc0\u8220{}Il coraggio degli equilibri instabili\uc0\u8221{}: la riflessione politica di Ursula Hirschmann tra sradicamento e cittadinanza inclusiva. {\b{}Eunomia}, v. 10, n. 1/2, p. 13\uc0\u8211{}24, jan. 2021. \
CORNELL, Drucilla. Doubly-Prized World: Myth Allegory and the Feminine. {\b{}Cornell Law Review}, v. 75, n. 3, p. 643\uc0\u8211{}698, 1 mar. 1990. \
COSTA, Pietro. {\b{}Lo Stato immaginario: metafore e paradigmi nella cultura giuridica italiana fra Ottocento e Novecento}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Giuffr\uc0\u232{}, 1986. \
COSTA, Pietro. {\b{}Cittadinanza}. Roma: GLF editori Laterza, 2005a. \
COSTA, Pietro. {\b{}Cittadinanza}. 4\super a\nosupersub{} edi\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o ed. Roma: Laterza, 2005b. \
COSTA, Pietro. O discurso da cidadania e a diferen\uc0\u231{}a de g\uc0\u234{}nero. {\b{}RDUno: Revista do Programa de P\uc0\u243{}s-Gradua\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o em Direito da Unochapec\uc0\u243{}}, v. 2, n. 3, p. 287\uc0\u8211{}308, 2019. \
COSTA, Pietro; SONTAG, Ricardo. OS DIREITOS PARA AL\uc0\u201{}M DO ESTADO. A DECLARA\uc0\u199{}\uc0\u195{}O DE 1948 E A SUA RET\uc0\u211{}RICA \uc0\u8216{}UNIVERSALISTA\uc0\u8217{} - DOI: 10.12818/P.0304-2340.2022v81p485. {\b{}REVISTA DA FACULDADE DE DIREITO DA UFMG}, v. 81, p. 483\uc0\u8211{}504, 2022. \
COSTA, Pietro; ZOLO, Danilo (ORGS.). {\b{}The Rule of Law History, Theory and Criticism}. Dordrecht: Springer Netherlands, 2007. v. 80\
COTT, Nancy F. Marriage and Women\uc0\u8217{}s Citizenship in the United States, 1830-1934. {\b{}The American Historical Review}, v. 103, n. 5, p. 1440\uc0\u8211{}1474, 1998a. \
COTT, Nancy F. Marriage and Women\uc0\u8217{}s Citizenship in the United States, 1830-1934. {\b{}The American Historical Review}, v. 103, n. 5, p. 1440\uc0\u8211{}1474, 1998b. \
COTT, Nancy F. {\b{}Public vows: a history of marriage and the nation}. Cambridge, Mass: Harvard University Press, 2000. \
{\b{}Couro imperial: ra\uc0\u231{}a, g\uc0\u234{}nero e sexualidade no embate colonial | Anne Mcclintock | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://singlelogin.re/book/3556892/7cee51/couro-imperial-ra%C3%A7a-g%C3%AAnero-e-sexualidade-no-embate-colonial.html>. Acesso em: 26 fev. 2024. \
COWMAN, Krista. \uc0\u8216{}We intend to show what Our Lord has done for women\uc0\u8217{}: the Liverpool Church League for Women\uc0\u8217{}s Suffrage, 1913\uc0\u8211{}18. {\b{}Studies in Church History}, v. 34, p. 475\uc0\u8211{}486, ed 1998. \
CRANE, Lucius F. The Nationality of Married Women. {\b{}Journal of Comparative Legislation and International Law}, v. 7, n. 1, p. 53\uc0\u8211{}60, 1925. \
CROSSMIGRATION. {\b{}Migration Research Hub}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://migrationresearch.com>. Acesso em: 21 abr. 2023. \
CROZIER, Blanche. The Changing Basis of Women\uc0\u8217{}s Nationality. {\b{}Boston University Law Review}, v. 14, n. 1, p. 129\uc0\u8211{}154, 1934. \
CRUEA, Susan M. Changing Ideals of Womanhood During the Nineteenth-Century Woman Movement. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
CUPIC, Simona. The Politics of Representation as a Projection of Identity: The Female Body in its Oriental Construction in Serbian Art. {\b{}European Journal of Women\uc0\u8217{}s Studies}, v. 10, n. 3, p. 321\uc0\u8211{}334, 1 ago. 2003. \
DAL RI JR., Arno. {\b{}Hist\uc0\u243{}ria do direito internacional}. Florian\uc0\u243{}polis: Funda\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o Boiteux, 2004. \
DAL RI J\uc0\u218{}NIOR, Arno. Hist\uc0\u243{}ria do Direito Internacional: com\uc0\u233{}rcio e moeda, cidadania e nacionalidade. 2004. \
DALLMAYR, Fred. {\b{}Border Crossings: Toward a Comparative Political Theory}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Lexington Books, 1999. \
DALTON, Mr Paul {\i{}et al.} Discriminatory laws undermining women\uc0\u8217{}s rights. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
DANAJ, Ermira. {\b{}Women, Migration and Gendered Experiences: The Case of Post-1991 Albanian Migration}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2022. \
DAUCHY, Serge {\i{}et al.} (ORGS.). {\b{}The Formation and Transmission of Western Legal Culture}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2016a. v. 7\
DAUCHY, Serge {\i{}et al.} (ORGS.). {\b{}The Formation and Transmission of Western Legal Culture}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2016b. v. 7\
DAUCHY, Serge. French Law and its Expansion in the Early Modern Period. {\i{}In}: PIHLAJAM\uc0\u196{}KI, Heikki; DUBBER, Markus D.; GODFREY, Mark (Orgs.). {\b{}The Oxford Handbook of European Legal History}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Oxford University Press, 2018. p. 0. \
DE GENOVA, Nicholas; PEUTZ, Nathalie Mae. {\b{}The Deportation regime sovereignty, space, and the freedom of movement}. Durham, NC: Durham, NC\uc0\u8239{}: Duke University Press, 2010. \
DE GROOT, Gerard. {\b{}Towards a toolbox for nationality legislation: Text of the Valedictory Lecture as Professor of Comparative Law and Private International Law at Maastricht University delivered on 14 October 2016}. Maastricht: Nexuslegal, 2016. \
DE GROOT, Gerard-Ren\uc0\u233{}; VONK, Olivier. Acquisition of Nationality by Birth on a Particular Territory or Establishment of Parentage: Global Trends Regarding Ius Sanguinis and Ius Soli. {\b{}Netherlands International Law Review}, v. 65, n. 3, p. 319\uc0\u8211{}335, 1 out. 2018. \
DE HART, Betty. Regulating Mixed Marriages through Acquisition and Loss of Citizenship. {\b{}The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science}, v. 662, p. 170\uc0\u8211{}187, 2015. \
DE HART, Betty; VAN OERS, Ricky. European trends in nationality law. {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 317\uc0\u8211{}358. \
DE LA RASILLA, Ignacio. A Very Short History of International Law Journals (1869-2018). {\b{}European Journal of International Law}, v. 29, n. 1, p. 137\uc0\u8211{}168, fev. 2018. \
DE LA RASILLA, Ignacio. The Problem of Periodization in the History of International Law. {\b{}Law and History Review}, v. 37, n. 1, p. 275\uc0\u8211{}308, fev. 2019. \
DE VOS, Jan. The iconographic brain. A critical philosophical inquiry into (the resistance of) the image. {\b{}Frontiers in Human Neuroscience}, v. 8, p. 300, 15 maio 2014. \
DEBONO, Sandro. G\uc0\u294{}onnella - A British-Styled Allegory for 20th Century Malta. {\b{}Peasant Costumes - Insights into Rural Life and Society}, 1 jan. 2012. \
DEBONO, Sandro. G\uc0\u295{}onnella: A British-styled allegory for twentieth-century Malta. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
DELMEDICO, Sara. Da madri a cittadine. Le donne italiane dall\uc0\u8217{}Unit\uc0\u224{} alla Repubblica. {\b{}The Italianist}, v. 38, n. 3, p. 301\uc0\u8211{}309, 2 set. 2018a. \
DELMEDICO, Sara. {\b{}From the Restoration to the Pisanelli Code (1815-1865): A Cultural and Historical Assessment of the Legal Status of Women in the North of the Italian Peninsula}. Thesis\uc0\u8212{}{\i{}[S.l.]}: University of Cambridge, 11 nov. 2018b.\
DELMEDICO, Sara. From the Restoration to the Pisanelli Code (1815-1865): A Cultural and Historical Assessment of the Legal Status of Women in the North of the Italian Peninsula. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
DESAN, Suzanne. Recent Historiography on the French Revolution and Gender. {\b{}Journal of Social History}, v. 52, n. 3, p. 566\uc0\u8211{}574, 1 jan. 2019. \
DESBAILLETS, David. Representing Canadian justice: legal iconography and symbolism at the Supreme Court of Canada. {\b{}International Journal of Law in Context}, v. 14, n. 1, p. 132\uc0\u8211{}156, mar. 2018. \
DESCOLA, Philippe. O AVESSO DO VIS\uc0\u205{}VEL: ONTOLOGIA E ICONOLOGIA. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
DEUTSCHER, Penelope. \uc0\u8220{}A Matter of Affect, Passion, and Heart\uc0\u8221{}\super 1\nosupersub{}\uc0\u8239{}: Our Taste for New Narratives of the History of Philosophy. {\b{}Hypatia}, v. 15, n. 4, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}17, 2000. \
DHOEST, Alexander. Remembering and Imagining the National Past: Public Service Television Drama and the Construction of a Flemish Nation, 1953-1989. {\i{}In}: WEEDA, Claire; KUITENBROUWER, Vincent; BLOK, Gemma (Orgs.). {\b{}Imagining Communities}. 1. ed. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2018. p. 215\uc0\u8211{}230. \
DHONDT, Frederik. Historiography of International Law on the European Continent. {\i{}In}: PETERS, Anne; LESAFFER, Randall (Orgs.). {\b{}The Cambridge History of International Law: Volume 1: The Historiography of International Law}. The Cambridge History of International Law. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2024. v. 1 p. 244\uc0\u8211{}272. \
{\b{}Di\uc0\u225{}logos Vol. XI - Timeu - Cr\uc0\u237{}tias - O Segundo Alcib\uc0\u237{}ades - H\uc0\u237{}pias Menor | PDF}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.scribd.com/document/769443186/Dialogos-Vol-XI-Timeu-Critias-O-Segundo-Alcibiades-Hipias-Menor>. Acesso em: 12 jul. 2025. \
DIAS, Renato Duro. A JUSTI\uc0\u199{}A QUE VEMOS, A JUSTI\uc0\u199{}A QUE NOS OLHA: IMAGEM E CULTURA VISUAL EM DIDI-HUBERMAN E MITCHELL. {\b{}Revista de Direito, Arte e Literatura}, v. 7, n. 1, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}21, 20 ago. 2021a. \
DIAS, Renato Duro. A JUSTI\uc0\u199{}A QUE VEMOS, A JUSTI\uc0\u199{}A QUE NOS OLHA: IMAGEM E CULTURA VISUAL EM DIDI-HUBERMAN E MITCHELL. {\b{}Revista de Direito, Arte e Literatura}, v. 7, n. 1, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}21, 20 ago. 2021b. \
{\b{}Diccionario bibliographico brazileiro pelo doutor Augusto Victorino Alves Sacramento Blake ... - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/82b823145191a9333df414b031534ed8>. Acesso em: 7 set. 2025. \
DIDI-HUBERMAN, Georges. {\b{}The surviving image\uc0\u8239{}: phantoms of time and time of phantoms\uc0\u8239{}: Aby Warburg\uc0\u8217{}s history of art}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: University Park, Pennsylvania\uc0\u8239{}: The Pennsylvania State University Press, 2017. \
DINIZ, Ricardo Martins Spindola. {\b{}Law as text and system: historicity and significance of contemporary legal interpretation}. tese\uc0\u8212{}{\i{}[S.l.]}: Universidade de S\uc0\u227{}o Paulo, 4 dez. 2023.\
DIPLOCK, Kenneth. Passports and Protection in International Law. {\b{}Transactions of the Grotius Society}, v. 32, p. 42\uc0\u8211{}59, 1946. \
{\b{}Disserta\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o 17 de abrilll}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1GwzXFu6Wkb_2iXJ0pIskmPNUQ3KREvWWKwfkleHoTXw/edit?usp=embed_facebook>. Acesso em: 1 maio. 2024. \
DONALD HORTON, R. Richard Wohl. {\b{}Mass Communication and Para-Social Interaction Observations on Intimacy at a Distance}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
DONATI, Sabina. \uc0\u8220{}Cittadinanza,\uc0\u8221{} \uc0\u8220{}sudditanza\uc0\u8221{} e \uc0\u8220{}nazionalit\uc0\u224{}\uc0\u8221{} in contesto imperiale: Riflessioni sul caso italiano tra guerra e dopoguerra, 1914\uc0\u8211{}1925. {\b{}Italian Culture}, v. 39, n. 2, p. 155\uc0\u8211{}173, 3 jul. 2021. \
DOUGLAS, Mary. {\b{}Purity and Danger: An Analysis of Concepts of Pollution and Taboo}. London: Routledge, 2003. \
DOUGLAS, Mary. {\b{}Pureza e perigo: 120}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Perspectiva, 2024. \
DOUGLAS, Mary. {\b{}Pureza e perigo}. Lisboa: Edi\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u245{}es 70, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
DOUSSET, Laurent. L\uc0\u233{}vi-Strauss: Exchange of Women (Theory and Critiques). {\i{}In}: {\b{}The International Encyclopedia of Anthropology}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: John Wiley & Sons, Ltd, 2018. p. 1\uc0\u8211{}6. \
{\b{}Download from partner website - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/slow_download/d9bd5ac66b0482847c9383e1cef6d948/0/0>. Acesso em: 30 ago. 2025. \
DUBBER, Markus D. Legal History as Legal Scholarship: Doctrinalism, Interdisciplinarity, and Critical Analysis of Law (for Dubber/Tomlins, Oxford Handbook of Legal History). {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
DUBOIS, Ellen. Storming The Hague - The 1930 Campaign for Independent Nationality for Women Regardless of Marital Status. {\b{}Tijdschrift voor Genderstudies}, v. 16, 1 dez. 2013. \
DUGUIT, L\uc0\u233{}on (1859-1928) Auteur du texte. {\b{}Les transformations g\uc0\u233{}n\uc0\u233{}rales du droit priv\uc0\u233{} depuis le Code Napol\uc0\u233{}on / par L\uc0\u233{}on Duguit,...} {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
DUMBRAVA, Costica. Bloodlines and Belonging: Time to Abandon Ius Sanguinis? {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer (Org.). {\b{}Debating Transformations of National Citizenship}. IMISCOE Research Series. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2018. p. 73\uc0\u8211{}81. \
DUMMETT, Ann. United Kingdom. {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 2: Country Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 551\uc0\u8211{}586. \
DUNCANSON, Claire. Forces for Good? Narratives of Military Masculinity in Peacekeeping Operations. {\b{}International Feminist Journal of Politics}, v. 11, n. 1, p. 63\uc0\u8211{}80, mar. 2009. \
DURAN, Jane. {\b{}Toward a Feminist Epistemology}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Rowman & Littlefield Publishers, 1991. \
{\b{}\uc0\u8220{}Durando, Giac.: Della nazionalit\uc0\u224{} italiana, saggio politico - militare\uc0\u8221{}, Image 1 of 460 | MDZ}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.digitale-sammlungen.de/en/view/bsb10077901?page=,1>. Acesso em: 2 fev. 2023. \
{\b{}Dutch Maiden}. , 18 nov. 2025. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
{\b{}Editora 34}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.editora34.com.br/detalhe.asp?id=926&srsltid=AfmBOooqwV1MzTDYUxw3eTAbvAFxaEQbwP7l-80_JGWMvyAmu3HtZCIr>. Acesso em: 17 nov. 2025a. \
{\b{}Editora 34}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.editora34.com.br/detalhe.asp?id=1268&busca=>. Acesso em: 11 dez. 2024b. \
EDITORA, Juru\uc0\u225{}. {\b{}Soberania, Representa\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o, Democracia - Ensaios de Hist\uc0\u243{}ria do Pensamento Jur\uc0\u237{}dico - Biblioteca Hist\uc0\u243{}ria do Direito - Coordenador: Ricardo Marcelo...} Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.jurua.com.br/shop_item.asp?id=22054>. Acesso em: 2 abr. 2024. \
Editorial Comments. {\b{}American Journal of International Law}, v. 27, n. 1, p. 96\uc0\u8211{}139, 1933. \
EDWARD EVERETT HALE. {\b{}The Man Without a Country}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Little, Brown, 1898. \
EDWARDS, Alice. The meaning of nationality in international law in an era of human rights: Procedural and substantive aspects. {\i{}In}: EDWARDS, Alice; VAN WAAS, Laura (Orgs.). {\b{}Nationality and Statelessness under International Law}. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2014. p. 11\uc0\u8211{}43. \
EDWARDS, F. B. Common Law Naturalisation and Expatriation. {\b{}Journal of the Society of Comparative Legislation}, v. 15, n. 2, p. 108\uc0\u8211{}115, 1915. \
EICHNER, Carolyn J. In the Name of the Mother: Feminist Opposition to the Patronym in Nineteenth-Century France. {\b{}Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society}, v. 39, n. 3, p. 659\uc0\u8211{}683, mar. 2014. \
ELCHAZLI, Fatouh. Women\uc0\u8217{}s Rights in the Nationality Laws. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
{\b{}Electra\uc0\u8239{}: tracing a feminine myth through the Western imagination - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/abedd819a6515f1271b4a3591ae340ad>. Acesso em: 16 set. 2025. \
{\b{}Elementary Structures Reconsidered: Levi-Strauss on Kinship}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.routledge.com/Elementary-Structures-Reconsidered-Levi-Strauss-on-Kinship/Korn/p/book/9780415866538>. Acesso em: 24 out. 2023. \
{\b{}Elements Of The Philosophy Of Right - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/603c1657818122b70669c2340fa47905>. Acesso em: 8 nov. 2025. \
{\b{}English | Cillie (C\uc0\u228{}cilia) Rentmeister: Publikationen}. , {\i{}[S.d.]}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.cillie-rentmeister.de/themen/english/>. Acesso em: 21 set. 2025\
ENJELVIN; KORAC-KAKABADSE. France and the Memories of \uc0\u8220{}Others\uc0\u8221{}: The Case of the Harkis. {\b{}History and Memory}, v. 24, n. 1, p. 152, 2012. \
ENLOE, Cynthia. {\b{}Bananas, Beaches and Bases: Making Feminist Sense of International Politics, Completely Revised and Updated}. 2. ed. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
{\b{}Entanglements in Legal History: Conceptual Approaches | Thomas Duve | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://z-library.se/book/25167211/dd4d8e/entanglements-in-legal-history-conceptual-approaches.html>. Acesso em: 5 fev. 2024. \
{\b{}Epistemology and Methodology of Comparative Law (European Academy of Legal Theory Series) | Belgium) Conference on Epistemology and Methodology of Comparative Law (2002\uc0\u8239{}: Brussels, Conference | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://pt.singlelogin.re/book/1069514/35dccd/epistemology-and-methodology-of-comparative-law-european-academy-of-legal-theory-series.html?dsource=recommend>. Acesso em: 10 abr. 2024. \
{\b{}Erdteilallegorien}. Text. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://erdteilallegorien.univie.ac.at/erdteilallegorien>. Acesso em: 5 dez. 2025. \
EROL, Nuran. Gender and Citizenship: An Enlightening Linkage Towards Emancipation of Women. 1 jan. 2010. \
ERSB\uc0\u216{}LL, Eva. Denmark. {\i{}In}: ERSB\uc0\u216{}LL, Eva {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 2: Country Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 105\uc0\u8211{}148. \
{\b{}Estruturas elementares do parentesco - livrariavozes}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.livrariavozes.com.br/estruturaselementaresdoparentesco8532628583/p>. Acesso em: 27 out. 2023. \
{\b{}Ethel C. Mackenzie (U.S. National Park Service)}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.nps.gov/people/ethel-c-mackenzie.htm>. Acesso em: 15 out. 2023. \
{\b{}Ethno-nationalism denies millions their citizenship rights - anti-racism expert}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.ohchr.org/en/stories/2018/07/ethno-nationalism-denies-millions-their-citizenship-rights-anti-racism-expert>. Acesso em: 24 out. 2023. \
EZER, Tamar. Forging Path for Women\uc0\u8217{}s Rights in Customary Law. v. 27, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
FALCKE, Swantje; VINK, Maarten Peter. Closing a backdoor to dual citizenship\uc0\u8239{}: the German citizenship law reform of 2000 and the abolishment of the \uc0\u8220{}domestic clause\uc0\u8221{}. {\b{}Frontiers in sociology}, v. 5, 2020. \
{\b{}Family Law in the Twentieth Century: A History | Stephen Cretney | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://zlibrary-br.se/book/2528540/a6e527>. Acesso em: 23 out. 2023. \
FASOLT, Constantin. History, Law, and Justice: Empirical Method and Conceptual Confusion in the History of Law. {\b{}UC Irvine Law Review 5 (2015): 413\uc0\u8211{}62}, 1 jan. 2015. \
{\b{}Fatality Of Femininity: The Femme Fatale And The Fallen Woman}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://arthistorysociety.org/essays/fatality-femininity>. Acesso em: 10 jan. 2026. \
FAULKNER, Kate. Cambridge Women and the Law. {\b{}Legal Information Management}, v. 19, n. 1, p. 50\uc0\u8211{}56, mar. 2019. \
FAUVARQUE-COSSON, B\uc0\u233{}n\uc0\u233{}dicte. Review of Unifying and Harmonizing Substantive Law and the Role of Conflict of Laws. {\b{}The American Journal of Comparative Law}, v. 59, n. 2, p. 591\uc0\u8211{}594, 2011. \
FEDERICI, Silvia. {\b{}Caliban and the Witch}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
FELSKI, Rita. {\b{}The gender of modernity}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Cambridge, Mass.\uc0\u8239{}: Harvard University Press, 1995. \
{\b{}Feminist Epistemologies | Linda Alcoff, Elizabeth Potter (eds.) | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://pt.singlelogin.re/book/2523289/75b0f4/feminist-epistemologies.html>. Acesso em: 10 abr. 2024. \
{\b{}Feminist Interpretations of Hannah Arendt Edited by Bonnie Honig}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.psupress.org/books/titles/0-271-01446-6.html>. Acesso em: 7 nov. 2023. \
{\b{}Feminist Judgments in International Law: Hodson, Loveday, Lavers, Troy: 9781509914456: Amazon.com: Books}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.amazon.com/Feminist-Judgments-International-Loveday-Hodson/dp/1509914455>. Acesso em: 27 set. 2025. \
FENGLIN, Liu. Female Objects and Feminist Consciousness for the Purpose to Awake Readers\uc0\u8217{} Awareness: A Comparative Analysis between Angela Carter\uc0\u8217{}s The Bloody Chamber and Anne Sexton\uc0\u8217{}s Transformations. {\b{}Emerging Science Journal}, v. 4, n. 1, p. 25\uc0\u8211{}36, 1 fev. 2020. \
FERRACIOLI, Luara. Citizenship for children: By soil, by blood, or by paternalism? {\b{}Philosophical Studies: An International Journal for Philosophy in the Analytic Tradition}, v. 175, n. 11, p. 2859\uc0\u8211{}2877, 2018. \
{\b{}File:Standard18950427int08-large.jpg - Wikipedia}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Standard18950427int08-large.jpg>. Acesso em: 27 dez. 2025. \
{\b{}File:Voelker Europas.jpg - Wikipedia}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Voelker_Europas.jpg>. Acesso em: 19 nov. 2025. \
FITZPARTICK, Joan; KELLY, Katrina R. Gendered Aspects of Migration: Law and the Female Migrant. v. 22, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
FLOURNOY, Richard W. Observations on the New German Law of Nationality. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 8, n. 3, p. 477\uc0\u8211{}486, 1914. \
FLOURNOY, Richard W. The New British Imperial Law of Nationality. {\b{}American Journal of International Law}, v. 9, n. 4, p. 870\uc0\u8211{}882, out. 1915. \
FLOURNOY, Richard W. The New Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Citizenship Law. {\b{}The Yale Law Journal}, v. 33, n. 2, p. 159\uc0\u8211{}170, 1923. \
FLOURNOY, Richard W. Nationality Convention, Protocols and Recommendations Adopted by the First Conference on the Codification of International Law. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 24, n. 3, p. 467\uc0\u8211{}485, 1930. \
FOBLETS, Marie-Claire; LOONES, Sander. Belgium. {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 2: Country Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 63\uc0\u8211{}104. \
FOLLACCHIO, Sara. Associazionismo femminile e nation building. Il contributo dell\uc0\u8217{}Associazione Donne Ebree d\uc0\u8217{}Italia. {\b{}Women\uc0\u8217{}s Associationism and Nation Building: The Contribution of the Association of Jewish Women of Italy.}, v. 12, n. 1, p. 99\uc0\u8211{}125, jan. 2017. \
FREEDMAN, Warren. {\b{}The international right to travel, trade, and commerce}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Buffalo: William S. Hein & Co., Inc., 1993. \
{\b{}Freud e o patriarcado | Rafael Kalak Cossi, Pedro Ambra, Jana\uc0\u237{}na Namba | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://pt.z-library.se/book/13693954/d154a7/freud-e-o-patriarcado.html>. Acesso em: 14 jan. 2024. \
{\b{}from Endymion}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/44469/endymion-56d2239287ca5>. Acesso em: 19 out. 2025. \
{\b{}From Mythology to Philosophy: The Polis as a Historical Turning Point}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.byarcadia.org/posts/from-mythology-to-philosophy%3A-the-polis-as-a-historical-turning-point>. Acesso em: 2 jan. 2026. \
{\b{}From Symbol to Allegory: Aby Warburg\uc0\u8217{}s Theory of Art - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/7adfa17e50362f111af963942b92d1e2>. Acesso em: 2 nov. 2025a. \
{\b{}From Symbol to Allegory: Aby Warburg\uc0\u8217{}s Theory of Art - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/7adfa17e50362f111af963942b92d1e2>. Acesso em: 28 set. 2025b. \
FRUZZETTI, Lina; PEREZ, Rosa Maria. The gender of the nation: allegoric femininity and women\uc0\u8217{}s status in Bengal and Goa. {\b{}Etnogr\uc0\u225{}fica. Revista do Centro em Rede de Investiga\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o em Antropologia}, n. vol. 6 (1), p. 41\uc0\u8211{}58, 1 maio 2002. \
FUCHS, Rachel G. {\b{}Contested Paternity: Constructing Families in Modern France}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: JHU Press, 2008. \
{\b{}Futuro passado: contribui\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o \uc0\u224{} sem\uc0\u226{}ntica dos tempos hist\uc0\u243{}ricos | Reinhart Koselleck | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://pt.zlibrary-africa.se/book/5000953/38b830>. Acesso em: 30 out. 2023. \
{\b{}Galleria Doria Pamphilj}. , 28 abr. 2025. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
GARDNER, Shanella. Marriage and Citizenship in the United States. 2014a. \
GARDNER, Shanella. Marriage and Citizenship in the United States. 2014b. \
GARNER, J. W. Uniformity of Law in Respect to Nationality. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 19, n. 3, p. 547\uc0\u8211{}553, 1925a. \
GARNER, J. W. Uniformity of Law in Respect to Nationality. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 19, n. 3, p. 547\uc0\u8211{}553, 1925b. \
GARRETT, Julia T. Ordinary People: Soviet-American Transnational Marriage and The International Implications of Divided Spouses. v. 6, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
GARRETT, Julia T. Ordinary People: Soviet-American Transnational Marriage and The International Implications of Divided Spouses. v. 6, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
GATTI, Rosa. Pratiche di cittadinanza. L\uc0\u8217{}associazionismo migrante femminile nel napoletano. {\b{}Societ\uc0\u224{}MutamentoPolitica}, v. 7, n. 13, p. 341\uc0\u8211{}357, 13 maio 2016. \
GAZZETTA, Liviana. Il peso della metafisica. Dottrina sociale della Chiesa e cittadinanza femminile in Italia tra Otto e Novecento. {\b{}Scienza & Politica. Per una storia delle dottrine}, v. 34, n. 66, p. 111\uc0\u8211{}124, 19 jul. 2022. \
GEISLER, Michael E. {\b{}National Symbols, Fractured Identities: Contesting the National Narrative}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: UPNE, 2005. \
{\b{}Gender, Nationality and Naturalization}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://ehne.fr/en/encyclopedia/themes/gender-and-europe/gender-citizenship-in-europe/gender-nationality-and-naturalization>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023. \
{\b{}Genealogies of Legal Vision (Discourses of Law) - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/22da6a85c8fd6efa16b0e94f86e4b34e>. Acesso em: 5 dez. 2025. \
GETTYS, C. Luella. The Effect of Changes of Sovereignty on Nationality. {\b{}American Journal of International Law}, v. 21, n. 2, p. 268\uc0\u8211{}278, 1927. \
GIBNEY, Matthew J. Should Citizenship Be Conditional? The Ethics of Denationalization. {\b{}The Journal of Politics}, v. 75, n. 3, p. 646\uc0\u8211{}658, 2013. \
GIMBUTAS, Marija. {\b{}The Living Goddesses}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: University of California Press, 2001. \
GIM\uc0\u201{}NEZ, Mar\uc0\u237{}a Elvira \uc0\u193{}lvarez. The transnational feminist movement in the Americas in the 1930s. {\b{}Ciencia Nueva. Revista de Historia y Pol\uc0\u237{}tica}, v. 3, n. 1, p. 112, 2019a. \
GIM\uc0\u201{}NEZ, Mar\uc0\u237{}a Elvira \uc0\u193{}lvarez. The transnational feminist movement in the Americas in the 1930s. {\b{}Ciencia Nueva, revista de Historia y Pol\uc0\u237{}tica}, v. 3, n. 1, p. 112\uc0\u8211{}133, 27 ago. 2019b. \
GIRARD, Philip. \uc0\u8220{}If two ride a horse, one must ride in front\uc0\u8221{}: Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Nationality and the Law in Canada 1880\uc0\u8211{}1950. {\b{}The Canadian Historical Review}, v. 94, n. 1, p. 28\uc0\u8211{}54, 2013a. \
GIRARD, Philip. \uc0\u8220{}If two ride a horse, one must ride in front\uc0\u8221{}: Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Nationality and the Law in Canada 1880-1950. {\b{}Canadian Historical Review}, v. 94, n. 1, p. 28\uc0\u8211{}54, mar. 2013b. \
{\b{}Glass, Irony and God | Anne Carson | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://pt.articles.sk/book/13784507/1e3cf3/glass-irony-and-god.html>. Acesso em: 2 abr. 2025. \
{\b{}God and the State}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <http://dwardmac.pitzer.edu/anarchist_archives/bakunin/godandstate/godandstate_ch1.html>. Acesso em: 13 dez. 2025. \
GOH, Benjamin. Potential Legal History in the Art of Sonny Liew. {\b{}Law and History Review}, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}27, 1 set. 2025. \
GOMES, Artur Nunes. Um amor de 500 anos: irmandade e ambiguidade nas rela\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u245{}es entre Brasil e Portugal. {\i{}In}: OFICINA DO CES. {\b{}Oficina do CES}. Centro de Estudos Sociais, maio 1998. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://estudogeral.uc.pt/handle/10316/89374>. Acesso em: 23 set. 2023\
GON\uc0\u199{}ALVES, Daniele Gallindo. \uc0\u8220{}A Sentinela junto ao Reno\uc0\u8221{}:: imagens da Germ\uc0\u226{}nia, do poema de Max Schneckenburger ao monumento de Johannes Schilling. {\b{}Ant\uc0\u237{}teses}, v. 16, n. 32, p. 563\uc0\u8211{}592, 31 dez. 2023. \
GOODRICH, Peter. {\b{}Legal Emblems and the Art of Law: Obiter Depicta as the Vision of Governance}. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2013a. \
GOODRICH, Peter. Legal Emblems and the Art of Law. 1 jan. 2013b. \
GOODRICH, Peter. Legal Emblems and the Art of Law. 1 jan. 2013c. \
GOSEWINKEL, D. The Dominance of Nationality? Nation and Citizenship from the Late Nineteenth Century Onwards: A Comparative European Perspective. {\b{}German History}, v. 26, n. 1, p. 92\uc0\u8211{}108, 1 jan. 2008. \
GOURDON, Vincent. R\uc0\u233{}seaux des femmes, r\uc0\u233{}seaux de femmes. Le cas du t\uc0\u233{}moignage au mariage civil au xixe si\uc0\u232{}cle dans les pays h\uc0\u233{}ritiers du Code Napol\uc0\u233{}on (France, Pays-Bas, Belgique). {\b{}Annales de demographie historique}, v. 112, n. 2, p. 33\uc0\u8211{}55, 2006. \
GRAHAM, Elaine. A Remembrance of Things (Best) Forgotten: the \uc0\u8216{}allegorical past\uc0\u8217{} and the Feminist Imagination. {\b{}Feminist Theology}, v. 21, n. 1, p. 58\uc0\u8211{}70, 1 set. 2012. \
{\b{}\uc0\u171{}Grande naturalizzazione\uc0\u187{}? No grazie. Cittadinanza \uc0\u171{}iure sanguinis\uc0\u187{} al vaglio delle sezioni unite - ForoPlus}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.foroplus.it//visualizza-stampa.php?sha1=acf69b9af3188728e73396d87adaeb771e0230bf>. Acesso em: 31 jan. 2023. \
GRAY, Andrew. {\b{}ChatGPT \uc0\u8220{}contamination\uc0\u8221{}: estimating the prevalence of LLMs in the scholarly literature}. arXiv, , 25 mar. 2024. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <http://arxiv.org/abs/2403.16887>. Acesso em: 16 abr. 2024\
GROENENDIJK, Kees. The status of quasi-citizenship in EU member states: Why some states have \uc0\u8216{}almost-citizens\uc0\u8217{}. {\i{}In}: GROENENDIJK, Kees {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006a. p. 411\uc0\u8211{}430. \
GROENENDIJK, Kees. The legal integration of potential citizens: {\i{}In}: GROENENDIJK, Kees {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006b. p. 385\uc0\u8211{}410. \
GROSSI, Paolo. {\b{}Mitologias jur\uc0\u237{}dicas da modernidade}. 2. ed., rev.ampl ed. Florian\uc0\u243{}polis: Funda\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o Boiteux, 2007. \
GROSSI, Paolo. {\b{}A History of European Law}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: John Wiley & Sons, 2010. \
GUERRY, Linda. La nationalit\uc0\u233{} des femmes mari\uc0\u233{}es sur la sc\uc0\u232{}ne internationale (1918-1935). {\b{}Clio. Femmes, Genre, Histoire}, n. 43, p. 73\uc0\u8211{}93, 2016. \
GUERRY, Linda. Gender, Nationality and Naturalization. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
GUERRY, Linda; RUNDELL, Ethan. Married women\uc0\u8217{}s nationality in the international context (1918-1935). {\b{}Clio. Women, Gender, History}, n. 43, p. 73\uc0\u8211{}94, 2016. \
GUERRY, Linda; TH\uc0\u201{}BAUD, Fran\uc0\u231{}oise; REYNOLDS, Si\uc0\u226{}n. Editorial: Women, gender and migration. {\b{}Clio. Women, Gender, History}, n. 51, p. 19\uc0\u8211{}34, 2020. \
GUIGUET, Benoit. {\b{}Citoyennet\uc0\u233{} et nationalit\uc0\u233{}\uc0\u8239{}: limites de la rupture d\uc0\u8217{}un lien}. IT: European University Institute, 1997. \
HAILBRONNER, Kay. Nationality in public international law and european law. {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 35\uc0\u8211{}104. \
HALP\uc0\u201{}RIN, J. L.; WEIR, T. {\b{}The French Civil Code}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: UCL Press, 2006. \
HALP\uc0\u201{}RIN, Jean Louis. Mapping the history of codification. {\b{}Revista da Faculdade de Direito, Universidade de S\uc0\u227{}o Paulo}, v. 112, p. 485\uc0\u8211{}508, 2017. \
HALP\uc0\u201{}RIN, Jean-Louis. Deux cents ans de rayonnement du Code civil des Fran\uc0\u231{}ais\uc0\u8239{}? {\b{}Les Cahiers de droit}, v. 46, n. 1\uc0\u8211{}2, p. 229\uc0\u8211{}251, 12 abr. 2005. \
HALP\uc0\u201{}RIN, Jean-Louis. Lex posterior derogat priori, lex specialis derogat generali Jalons pour une histoire des conflits de normes centr\uc0\u233{}e sur ces deux solutions concurrentes. {\b{}TIJDSCHRIFT VOOR RECHTSGESCHIEDENIS}, v. 80, n. 3\uc0\u8211{}4, p. 353\uc0\u8211{}397, 2012. \
HALP\uc0\u201{}RIN, Jean-Louis. {\b{}Five Legal Revolutions Since the 17th Century: An Analysis of a Global Legal History}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2014. v. 1\
HALP\uc0\u201{}RIN, Jean-Louis. Entanglements in legal history: conceptual approaches. {\b{}Comparative Legal History}, v. 3, n. 2, p. 332\uc0\u8211{}336, 3 jul. 2015. \
HAMBLEN, Carol Howe. THE MARRIED WOMAN\uc0\u8217{}S NAME: A Metaphor of Oppression. {\b{}ETC: A Review of General Semantics}, v. 36, n. 3, p. 248\uc0\u8211{}256, 1979. \
HANNA, Martha. Iconology and Ideology: Images of Joan of Arc in the Idiom of the Action Fran\uc0\u231{}aise, 1908-1931. {\b{}French Historical Studies}, v. 14, n. 2, p. 215\uc0\u8211{}239, 1985. \
HASHEMI-NASAB ZAVAREH, Seyyed Mohsen; GHAFFARIAN, Elham; GHAMKHAR, Naser. The principles of the dependent and independent nationality of spouses: advantages and disadvantages. {\b{}Ius Humani. Law Journal}, v. 7, p. 105\uc0\u8211{}121, 22 abr. 2018. \
HAYAERT, Val\uc0\u233{}rie. The Paradoxes of Lady Justice\uc0\u8217{}s Blindfold. {\i{}In}: HUYGEBAERT, Stefan {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}The Art of Law: Artistic Representations and Iconography of Law and Justice in Context, from the Middle Ages to the First World War}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2018. p. 201\uc0\u8211{}221. \
HAYAERT, Val\uc0\u233{}rie. {\b{}Lady Justice: An Anatomy of Allegory}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Edinburgh University Press, 2023a. \
HAYAERT, Val\uc0\u233{}rie. {\b{}Lady Justice: An Anatomy of Allegory}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Edinburgh University Press, 2023b. \
HAYAERT, Val\uc0\u233{}rie. Chapter 10 Allegories of justice in contemporary France: In search of a new paradigm. {\i{}In}: SZCZYRBAK, Magdalena (Org.). {\b{}More than (Just) Words: Legal and Non-Legal Narratives in the Courtroom and Beyond}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: De Gruyter Mouton, 2025a. p. 267\uc0\u8211{}292. \
HAYAERT, Val\uc0\u233{}rie. Chapter 10 Allegories of justice in contemporary France: In search of a new paradigm. {\i{}In}: SZCZYRBAK, Magdalena (Org.). {\b{}More than (Just) Words: Legal and Non-Legal Narratives in the Courtroom and Beyond}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: De Gruyter Mouton, 2025b. p. 267\uc0\u8211{}292. \
HAZARD, Henry B. International Problems in Respect to Nationality by Naturalization and of Married Women. {\b{}Proceedings of the American Society of International Law at its annual meeting}, v. 20, p. 67\uc0\u8211{}89, 1926. \
HEDINGER, Daniel. What\uc0\u8217{}s the problem with law in history? An introduction. {\b{}together with Daniel Siemens, in: InterDisciplines. Journal of History and Sociology, Vol. 3. Nr. 2 (2012), pp. 6-17.}, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
HEGEL, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich. {\b{}Cursos de Est\uc0\u233{}tica I Vol. 1}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: EdUSP, 1999. \
HEGEL, Georg Wilhelm Friedrich {\i{}et al.} Cursos de est\uc0\u233{}tica. Volume II: volume II / G. W. F. Hegel. {\i{}In}: Cl\uc0\u225{}ssicos. S\uc0\u227{}o Paulo: Editora da Universidade de S\uc0\u227{}o Paulo, 2000. \
{\b{}Hegel, Heidegger, and the Ground of History - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/88e1334e8833d7631d3ccbe4c7c5ec44>. Acesso em: 8 nov. 2025. \
{\b{}Hegel, Paix\uc0\u227{}o e Diferen\uc0\u231{}a}. {\b{}Expert Editora Digital}, 23 dez. 2021. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://experteditora.com.br/hegel-paixao-e-diferenca/>. Acesso em: 19 out. 2025\
HERITIER, Paolo. Forms of Legal Aesthetics of the Body and Sources of Law: the Hand, the Foot, the Eye. Plural Natural Paths in Law. {\b{}Teoria e Critica della Regolazione Sociale / Theory and Criticism of Social Regulation}, v. 2, n. 9, p. 87\uc0\u8211{}108, 2014. \
HERZOG, Christian; HOOK, Daniel; KONKIEL, Stacy. Dimensions: Bringing down barriers between scientometricians and data. {\b{}Quantitative Science Studies}, v. 1, n. 1, p. 387\uc0\u8211{}395, fev. 2020. \
HESPANHA, Ant\uc0\u243{}nio Manuel. Categorias. Hist\uc0\u243{}ria dos Conceitos, Hist\uc0\u243{}ria das Ideias, Hist\uc0\u243{}ria dos Dogmas Jur\uc0\u237{}dicos. {\b{}Cadernos do Programa de P\uc0\u243{}s-Gradua\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o em Direito \uc0\u8211{} PPGDir./UFRGS}, v. 13, n. 1, 28 set. 2018a. \
HESPANHA, Ant\uc0\u243{}nio Manuel. Categorias. Hist\uc0\u243{}ria dos Conceitos, Hist\uc0\u243{}ria das Ideias, Hist\uc0\u243{}ria dos Dogmas Jur\uc0\u237{}dicos. {\b{}Cadernos do Programa de P\uc0\u243{}s-Gradua\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o em Direito \uc0\u8211{} PPGDir./UFRGS}, v. 13, n. 1, 28 set. 2018b. \
HEUER, Jennifer. \uc0\u171{}\uc0\u8239{}Afin d\uc0\u8217{}obtenir le droit de citoyen... en tout ce qui peut concerner une personne de son sexe\uc0\u8239{}\uc0\u187{}\uc0\u8239{}: devenir ou cesser d\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u234{}tre fran\uc0\u231{}aise \uc0\u224{} l\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u233{}poque napol\uc0\u233{}onienne. {\b{}Clio. Femmes, Genre, Histoire}, n. 12, 1 nov. 2000. \
HIGGINS, Lesley; LEPS, Marie Christine. \uc0\u8220{}Passport, Please\uc0\u8221{}: Legal, Literary, and Critical Fictions of Identity. {\b{}College Literature}, v. 25, n. 1, p. 94\uc0\u8211{}138, 1998. \
HIGGINS, Peter. Review: The Birthright Lottery: Citizenship and Global Inequality by Ayelet Shachar. {\b{}Ethics}, v. 120, n. 1, p. 197\uc0\u8211{}202, 2009. \
HIGGINS, Rosalyn. The Right in International Law of an Individual to Enter, Stay in and Leave a Country. {\b{}International Affairs (Royal Institute of International Affairs 1944-)}, v. 49, n. 3, p. 341\uc0\u8211{}357, 1973. \
HILL, Cyril D. Citizenship of Married Women. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 18, n. 4, p. 720\uc0\u8211{}736, 1924. \
HILLMAN, Susanne. Men with Muskets, Women with Lyres: Nationality, Citizenship, and Gender in the Writings of Germaine de Sta\uc0\u235{}l. {\b{}Journal of the History of Ideas}, v. 72, n. 2, p. 231\uc0\u8211{}254, 2011. \
{\b{}Historique du droit de la nationalit\uc0\u233{} f...s en France - Minist\uc0\u232{}re de l\uc0\u8217{}Int\uc0\u233{}rieur.pdf}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://french-genealogy.typepad.com/PDFs/Historique%20du%20droit%20de%20la%20nationalite%CC%81%20f...s%20en%20France%20-%20Ministe%CC%80re%20de%20l%27Inte%CC%81rieur.pdf>. Acesso em: 9 abr. 2023. \
HOBSBAWM, Eric; RANGER, Terence. {\b{}The Invention of Tradition}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Cambridge University Press, 1992. \
HOFF, Joan. American women and the lingering implications of coverture. {\b{}The Social science journal (Fort Collins)}, v. 44, n. 1, p. 41\uc0\u8211{}55, 2007. \
HOLCOMBE, Lee. {\b{}Wives & Property: Reform of the Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Property Law in Nineteenth-Century England}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: University of Toronto Press, 1983. \
HOLTON, Woody. Equality as Unintended Consequence: The Contracts Clause and the Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Property Acts. {\b{}Journal of Southern History}, v. 81, n. 2, p. 313\uc0\u8211{}340, maio 2015. \
{\b{}Homo Spectator\uc0\u8239{}: Ver > Fazer Ver - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/d5af546ef5ae9d8a4693a28e13172537>. Acesso em: 23 nov. 2025. \
HORTON, Donald; RICHARD WOHL, R. Mass Communication and Para-Social Interaction: Observations on Intimacy at a Distance. {\b{}Psychiatry}, v. 19, n. 3, p. 215\uc0\u8211{}229, ago. 1956. \
HOVER, Ernest J. Citizenship of Women in the United States. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 26, n. 4, p. 700\uc0\u8211{}719, 1932. \
HOWARD, Marc Morj\uc0\u233{}. Comparative Citizenship: An Agenda for Cross-National Research. {\b{}Perspectives on Politics}, v. 4, n. 3, p. 443\uc0\u8211{}455, 2006. \
HOXHA, Damigela. ALLE RADICI DELL\uc0\u8217{}AFFILIAZIONE. L\uc0\u8217{}EMERSIONE DELLE PRATICHE PARAADOTTIVE NEL CODICE CIVILE DEL 1942. (Italian): At the roots of affiliation. The emersion of para-adoptive practices in the civil code of 1942. (English). {\b{}Archivio Giuridico}, n. 1, p. 127\uc0\u8211{}153, jan. 2021. \
HUDDLESTON, Thomas. Naturalisation in context: how nationality laws and procedures shape immigrants\uc0\u8217{} interest and ability to acquire nationality in six European countries. {\b{}Comparative Migration Studies}, v. 8, n. 1, p. 18, 28 maio 2020. \
HUDDLESTON, Thomas; FALCKE, Swantje. Nationality Policies in the Books and in Practice: Comparing Immigrant Naturalisation across Europe. {\b{}International Migration}, v. 58, n. 2, p. 255\uc0\u8211{}271, 2020a. \
HUDDLESTON, Thomas; FALCKE, Swantje. Nationality Policies in the Books and in Practice: Comparing Immigrant Naturalisation across Europe. {\b{}International Migration}, v. 58, n. 2, p. 255\uc0\u8211{}271, 2020b. \
HUDSON, Manley O. The Hague Convention of 1930 and the Nationality of Women. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 27, n. 1, p. 117\uc0\u8211{}122, 1933. \
HUFTON, Olwen H. {\b{}The prospect before her: a history of women in Western Europe}. First American Edition ed. New York: Alfred Knopf\uc0\u8239{}: Distributed by Random House, 1996. \
HUNDLEY, Jessica; GROSSMAN, Pam (ORGS.). {\b{}Witchcraft. the library of esoterica}. K\uc0\u246{}ln, Germany: Taschen, 2024. \
Husband and Wife--Extent to Which the Common Law Concept of the Unity of Husband and Wife and Its Consequences Have Been Abrogated in Minnesota by the Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Act and Related Statutes, Either Expressly or by Necessary Implication. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
{\b{}{\i{}Hypnerotomachia Poliphili}}. , 22 nov. 2024. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
IACONIS, Valeria. Le catene moderne della nuova Eva. La critica della letteratura femminile al codice Pisanelli. {\i{}In}: {\b{}Chronica Mundi}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. v. 12 p. 147\uc0\u8211{}178. \
IACOVETTA, Franca. \uc0\u8216{}In the case of a woman\uc0\u8217{} or \uc0\u8216{}the headache\uc0\u8217{}: married women\uc0\u8217{}s nationality and Canada\uc0\u8217{}s Citizenship Act at home and Europe, 1946\uc0\u8211{}50. {\b{}Women\uc0\u8217{}s History Review}, v. 28, n. 3, p. 396\uc0\u8211{}420, 16 abr. 2019. \
{\b{}ICONCLASS}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://iconclass.org/read/1974_Iconclass_Generalintro.pdf>. Acesso em: 5 dez. 2025a. \
{\b{}ICONCLASS}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://iconclass.org/read/1964_Aesthetics.pdf>. Acesso em: 5 dez. 2025b. \
{\b{}Idea: A Concept in Art Theory | Erwin Panofsky; translated by Joseph J. S. Peake | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://z-lib.gl/book/16169572/20a335/idea-a-concept-in-art-theory.html?dsource=recommend>. Acesso em: 11 dez. 2024. \
{\b{}Il codice civile italiano annotato / da Vincenzo Cattaneo\uc0\u8239{}; coll\uc0\u8217{}opera e consiglio di Carlo Borda e di altri giureconsulti}. Torino: dalla Societa\uc0\u8217{} dell\uc0\u8217{}Unione Tipografico-Editrice, 1865. \
Illegitimate Borders: \uc0\u8220{}Jus Sanguinis\uc0\u8221{} Citizenship and the Legal Construction of Family, Race, and Nation. 2023. \
{\b{}Image, Icon, Economy: The Byzantine Origins of the Contemporary Imaginary (Cultural Memory in the Present): Mondzain, Marie-Jose, Franses, Rico: 9780804741002: Amazon.com: Books}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.amazon.com/Image-Icon-Economy-Byzantine-Contemporary/dp/080474100X>. Acesso em: 28 ago. 2025. \
{\b{}In the Name of the Mother: Feminist Opposition to the Patronym in Nineteenth-Century France | Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society: Vol 39, No 3}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1086/674321>. Acesso em: 12 jan. 2024. \
INSTITUTE, Phd in History and Civlization European University; WARWICK, Honorary researcher at University of. {\b{}Valerie HAYAERT | Honorary researcher | Phd in History and Civlization European University Institute | University of Warwick, Coventry | Centre for the study of the Renaissance | Research profile}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Valerie-Hayaert>. Acesso em: 5 dez. 2025. \
{\b{}Introdu\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o aos Estudos Liter\uc0\u225{}rios | Erich Auerbach | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://z-lib.gl/book/17434559/d0159d/introdu%C3%A7%C3%A3o-aos-estudos-liter%C3%A1rios.html>. Acesso em: 11 dez. 2024. \
{\b{}Introducing Hegel: A Graphic Guide (Introducing...) - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/03bf22855dc36366377e1e64cd83dbf5>. Acesso em: 8 nov. 2025. \
IOTTI, Fondazione Nilde. {\b{}Le leggi delle donne che hanno cambiato l\uc0\u8217{}Italia}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Ediesse, 2019. \
IOTTI, Fondazione Nilde. LE LEGGI DELLE DONNE CHE HANNO CAMBIATO L\uc0\u8217{}ITALIA. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
IRVING, Helen. {\b{}Citizenship, Alienage, and the Modern Constitutional State: A Gendered History}. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2016. \
ISASTIA, Anna Maria. La questione femminile nelle discussioni parlamentari postunitarie: il codice civile del 1865. {\i{}In}: {\b{}Dimensioni e Problemi della Ricerca Storica}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Carocci Editore, 1991. p. 167\uc0\u8211{}180. \
ISLER-KER\uc0\u201{}NYI, Cornelia. Iconographical and Iconological Approaches. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
ITALIA. {\b{}Il codice civile italiano annotato / da Vincenzo Cattaneo}. Torino: Torino\uc0\u8239{}: dalla Societa\uc0\u8217{} dell\uc0\u8217{}Unione Tipografico-Editrice, 1865a. \
ITALIA. {\b{}Codice Civile del Regno D\uc0\u8217{}Italia Corredato Della Relazione del Ministro Guardasigilli Fatta A S.M. in Udienza del 25 Giugno 1865}. Torino Firenze: Torino Firenze\uc0\u8239{}: Tipografia eredi Botta Tipografia Reale, 1865b. \
JACOB-OWENS, Timothy. {\b{}A New GLOBALCIT Citizenship Law Dataset: What, Why and How?} Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://globalcit.eu/a-new-globalcit-citizenship-law-dataset-what-why-and-how/>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023. \
JAMIESON, MARC. {\b{}Meaning Behind the Lady of Justice Statue}. {\b{}Heather and Little}, 18 jun. 2019. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://heatherandlittle.com/blog/the-meaning-behind-the-lady-of-justice-statue/>. Acesso em: 3 jan. 2026\
JONES, Emily. {\b{}Feminist Theory and International Law: Posthuman Perspectives}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
JONES, Geoffrey. The End of Nationality? Global Firms and \uc0\u171{}Borderless Worlds\uc0\u187{}. {\b{}Zeitschrift f\uc0\u252{}r Unternehmensgeschichte / Journal of Business History}, v. 51, n. 2, p. 149\uc0\u8211{}165, 2006. \
JONES, John Mervyn. {\b{}British nationality law}. Revised ed. ed. Oxford: Clarendon press, 1956. \
JORDAN, Camille. De la Perte de la Nationalite Francaise par la Francaise qui Epouse en Etranger. {\b{}Revue de Droit International Prive}, v. 16, p. 362\uc0\u8211{}375, 1920. \
JOSSELIN, Jean-Michel; MARCIANO, Alain. The Making of the French Civil Code: An Economic Interpretation. {\b{}European Journal of Law and Economics}, v. 14, n. 3, p. 193\uc0\u8211{}204, 2002. \
JR, Arno Dal Ri. The Liturgy of Virtue in the Academic Ordo Iuris: Rites and vestments in depictions of an echelon between the Medieval and the Modern. {\b{}In: PIHLAJAM\uc0\u196{}KI, Heikki; NUNES, Diego; DAL RI Jr., Arno (Ed.s). Comparative Legal History: Law and Innovation. Belo Horizonte: Del-Rey}, 1 jan. 2024. \
JURT, Joseph. O Brasil: um Estado-na\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o a ser contru\uc0\u237{}do. O papel dos s\uc0\u237{}mbolos nacionais, do Imp\uc0\u233{}rio \uc0\u224{} Rep\uc0\u250{}blica. {\b{}Mana}, v. 18, p. 471\uc0\u8211{}509, 2012a. \
JURT, Joseph. O Brasil: um Estado-na\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o a ser contru\uc0\u237{}do. O papel dos s\uc0\u237{}mbolos nacionais, do Imp\uc0\u233{}rio \uc0\u224{} Rep\uc0\u250{}blica. {\b{}Mana}, v. 18, p. 471\uc0\u8211{}509, 2012b. \
JURT, Joseph. O BRASIL: UM ESTADO-NA\uc0\u199{}\uc0\u195{}O A SER CONSTRU\uc0\u205{}DO. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
KADRY, Ahmed. Gender and Tahrir Square: contesting the state and imagining a new nation. {\b{}Journal for Cultural Research}, v. 19, n. 2, p. 199\uc0\u8211{}206, 3 abr. 2015. \
KAST, Verena. {\b{}The dynamics of symbols\uc0\u8239{}: fundamentals of Jungian psychotherapy}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: New York\uc0\u8239{}: Fromm International Pub. Corp., 1992. \
KERBER, Linda K. The Paradox of Women\uc0\u8217{}s Citizenship in the Early Republic: The Case of Martin vs. Massachusetts, 1805. {\b{}The American Historical Review}, v. 97, n. 2, p. 349\uc0\u8211{}378, 1992. \
KIM-PURI, H. J. Conceptualizing Gender-Sexuality-State-Nation: An Introduction. {\b{}Gender & Society}, v. 19, n. 2, p. 137\uc0\u8211{}159, abr. 2005a. \
KIM-PURI, H. J. Conceptualizing Gender-Sexuality-State-Nation: An Introduction. {\b{}Gender & Society}, v. 19, n. 2, p. 137\uc0\u8211{}159, abr. 2005b. \
KING, John N. Queen Elizabeth I: Representations of the Virgin Queen. {\b{}Renaissance Quarterly}, v. 43, n. 1, p. 30\uc0\u8211{}74, 1990. \
KLIBANSKY, Raymond {\i{}et al.} {\b{}Saturn and Melancholy: Studies in the History of Natural Philosophy, Religion, and Art}. NED-New edition ed. {\i{}[S.l.]}: McGill-Queen\uc0\u8217{}s University Press, 2019. \
KNOP, Karen; CHINKIN, Christine. Remembering Chrystal MacMillan: Women\uc0\u8217{}s Equality and Nationality in International Law. v. 22, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
KOJANEC, Giovanni. {\b{}Nuove norme sulla cittadinanza italiana\uc0\u8239{}: riflessi interni ed internazionali / Giovanni Kojanec}. Milano: F. Angeli, 1995. \
KOLESNYK, Ganna. Warrior of the Light: Female Personifications of Ukraine on Mass Media during the Russo-Ukrainian War. {\i{}In}: {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. p. 293\uc0\u8211{}316. \
KORHONEN, Outi. \uc0\u8216{}If only they listened to Simone Weil\uc0\u8217{}: From Rights to Roots. {\i{}In}: TALLGREN, Immi (Org.). {\b{}Portraits of Women in International Law}. 1. ed. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Oxford University PressOxford, 2023. p. 469\uc0\u8211{}476. \
KOSELLECK, Reinhart. Sediments of Time: On Possible Histories. {\i{}In}: {\b{}Sediments of Time}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Stanford University Press, 2018. \
KOSELLECK, Reinhart; TRIBE, Keith. {\b{}Futures Past: On the Semantics of Historical Time}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Columbia University Press, 2004. \
KPODAR, Patrick A. Imam, Kangni R. {\b{}Does an Inclusive Citizenship Law Promote Economic Development?} Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.imf.org/en/Publications/WP/Issues/2019/01/11/Does-an-Inclusive-Citizenship-Law-Promote-Economic-Development-46331>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023. \
KRAMER, Lloyd. Historical Narratives and the Meaning of Nationalism. {\b{}Journal of the History of Ideas}, v. 58, n. 3, p. 525\uc0\u8211{}545, 1997. \
KRISTOL, Anne; DAHINDEN, Janine. Becoming a citizen through marriage: how gender, ethnicity and class shape the nation. {\b{}Citizenship Studies}, v. 24, n. 1, p. 40, 2019. \
KUBBEN, Raymond. To Belong or Not to Belong: Historical Reflections on Foreigners, Citizenship and Law. {\b{}Tilburg Law Review (Gaunt)}, v. 19, n. Issues 1-2, p. 136\uc0\u8211{}152, 2014. \
KUBLER, George; KUBLER, Professor George. {\b{}The Shape of Time: Remarks on the History of Things}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Yale University Press, 1962. \
KUCUKALIOGLU, Elif Gozdasoglu. {\b{}Imagi-Nation of Gendered Nationalism: The Representation of Women as Gendered National Subjects in Ottoman-Turkish Novels}. Saarbrucken Germany: VDM Verlag, 2009. \
KYMLICKA, Will; NORMAN, Wayne. Return of the Citizen: A Survey of Recent Work on Citizenship Theory. {\b{}Ethics}, v. 104, n. 2, p. 352\uc0\u8211{}381, 1994. \
LABUSSI\uc0\u200{}RE, Marie; VINK, Maarten Peter. The intergenerational impact of naturalisation reform\uc0\u8239{}: citizenship status of children of immigrants in the Netherlands, 1995-2016. {\b{}Journal of ethnic and migration studies}, v. 46, p. 2742\uc0\u8211{}2763, 2020. \
LACCH\uc0\u200{}, Luigi. Granting citizenship following Caracalla? The French experience and the Code Napol\uc0\u233{}on. {\b{}Journal of Constitutional History / Giornale di Storia Costituzionale}, n. 27, p. 179\uc0\u8211{}198, maio 2014. \
LACOUE-LABARTHE, Isabelle. Linda Guerry, Le genre de l\uc0\u8217{}immigration et de la naturalisation. L\uc0\u8217{}exemple de Marseille (1918-1940). {\b{}Clio. Femmes, Genre, Histoire}, n. 43, p. 293\uc0\u8211{}296, 1 jun. 2016. \
{\b{}Lady Liberty: An Illustrated History of America\uc0\u8217{}s Most Storied Woman | Antonio Masi; Joan Marans Dim; Joseph Berger | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://pt.articles.sk/book/25913788/7e83d5/lady-liberty-an-illustrated-history-of-americas-most-storied-woman.html>. Acesso em: 2 abr. 2025. \
LAHAV, Maya. {\b{}Is the Military a Masculinised Expression of Society?} {\b{}E-International Relations}, 10 mar. 2020. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.e-ir.info/2020/03/10/is-the-military-a-masculinised-expression-of-society/>. Acesso em: 26 jul. 2025\
LAHAV, Maya. Is the Military a Masculinised Expression of Society? {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
LANDES, Joan B. {\b{}Visualizing the Nation: Gender, Representation, and Revolution in Eighteenth-century France}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Cornell University Press, 2001. \
LATEY, William. The Anglo-French Tunis Dispute. {\b{}Transactions of the Grotius Society}, v. 9, p. 49\uc0\u8211{}60, 1923. \
{\b{}Laugh a defiance\uc0\u8239{}: Mary R. Richardson\uc0\u8239{}: Free Download, Borrow, and Streaming\uc0\u8239{}: Internet Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://archive.org/details/bwb_W7-DDF-869/page/n5/mode/2up>. Acesso em: 12 out. 2025. \
LAUMONIER, Lucie. Meanings of Fatherhood in Late-Medieval Montpellier: Love, Care and the Exercise of Patria Potestas. {\b{}Gender & History}, v. 27, n. 3, p. 651\uc0\u8211{}668, nov. 2015. \
LAURENZI, Elena. Con figura e vita propria. Mar\uc0\u1043{}\uc0\u173{}a Zambrano e la questione della cittadinanza delle donne. {\b{}Lectora}, n. 20, p. 149\uc0\u8211{}160, 2014. \
LAVRAPALAVRA. {\b{}Walter Benjamin - Teses sobre o conceito de Hist\uc0\u243{}ria}. {\b{}LavraPalavra}, 2 out. 2015. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://lavrapalavra.com/2015/10/02/walter-benjamin-teses-sobre-o-conceito-de-historia/>. Acesso em: 30 ago. 2025\
LAWTOO, Nidesh; VERKERK, Willow; CAVARERO, Adriana. Mimetic Inclinations: An Introduction. {\b{}Critical Horizons}, v. 24, n. 2, p. 103\uc0\u8211{}114, 3 abr. 2023. \
LEE, Christopher J. Jus Soli and Jus Sanguinis in the Colonies: The Interwar Politics of Race, Culture, and Multiracial Legal Status in British Africa. {\b{}Law and History Review}, v. 29, n. 2, p. 497\uc0\u8211{}522, 2011. \
{\b{}L\uc0\u8217{}emancipazione femminile in Italia: Giacinta Pezzana, Giorgina Saffi, Gualberta Beccari - ProQuest}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.proquest.com/docview/1298079413?OpenUrlRefId=info:xri/sid:primo&accountid=15928&imgSeq=1>. Acesso em: 31 jan. 2023. \
LEONIDI, di Giulia Aravantinou. Evoluzione storica e aspetti giuridici problematici del diritto di cittadinanza in Francia. n. 2, 2018. \
LERNER, Gerda; LERNER, Gerda. {\b{}The creation of patriarchy}. New York: Oxford Univ. Press, 1987. \
{\b{}Les femmes, actrices de l\uc0\u8217{}Histoire - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/5355220d9244195411b586854dde9f21>. Acesso em: 5 set. 2025. \
{\b{}L\uc0\u8217{}Europa del diritto (Italian Edition) - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/eceacd2b6f70490107c5048a530c427a>. Acesso em: 1 dez. 2025. \
{\b{}Likeness and Presence: A History of the Image Before the Era of Art}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
LIMA, Nerian Teixeira de Macedo de. Esculpir o ideal do \uc0\u8220{}novo homem\uc0\u8221{} e da \uc0\u8220{}nova mulher\uc0\u8221{} no Estado Novo. {\b{}Revista do Instituto de Estudos Brasileiros}, p. 201\uc0\u8211{}205, 25 set. 2023. \
LISTER, Ruth. Citizenship: Towards a Feminist Synthesis. {\b{}Feminist Review}, v. 57, n. 1, p. 28\uc0\u8211{}48, set. 1997. \
LLEWELLYN-JONES, F. The Nationality of Married Women. {\b{}Transactions of the Grotius Society}, v. 15, p. 121\uc0\u8211{}138, 1929. \
{\b{}Lokniti}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://lokniti.org/lokniti_news/2015/july/news/the-allegory-of-bharat-mata-150>. Acesso em: 10 jan. 2026. \
LONG, Katy. The point of no return refugees, rights, and repatriation. 2013. \
LUDI, Regula. Setting New Standards: International Feminism and the League of Nations\uc0\u8217{} Inquiry into the Status of Women. {\b{}Journal of Women\uc0\u8217{}s History}, v. 31, n. 1, p. 12\uc0\u8211{}36, 2019. \
LUIZA. {\b{}Ganhar ou perder}. {\b{}Meias palavras}, 20 dez. 2025. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://lzbrgs.substack.com/p/ganhar-ou-perder>. Acesso em: 3 jan. 2026\
LUNGHI, Enrico. Since History Is Always Written by Men\uc0\u8239{}: about Lady Rosa of Luxembourg by Sanja Ivekovic. {\b{}Lady Rosa of Luxembourg}, 1 jan. 2012. \
MACKINNON, Catharine A. {\b{}Are women human? and other international dialogues}. Cambridge, Mass: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, 2006. \
MACMILLAN, C. The Nationality of Married Women. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
MACMILLAN, Chrystal. Nationality of Married Women: Present Tendencies. {\b{}Journal of Comparative Legislation and International Law}, v. 7, n. 4, p. 142\uc0\u8211{}154, 1925. \
MACMILLAN, Chrystal. The Nationality of Married Women. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
MAISSEN, Thomas. Inventing the Sovereign Republic: Imperial Structures, French Challenges, Dutch Models and the Early Modern Swiss Confederation. {\i{}In}: MAISSEN, Thomas; HOLENSTEIN, Andr\uc0\u65533{}; PRAK, Maarten (Orgs.). {\b{}The Republican Alternative}. The Netherlands and Switzerland Compared. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2008. p. 125\uc0\u8211{}150. \
MAITHUFI, Ip; BEKKER, Jc. The recognition of the Customary Marriages Act of 1998 and its impact on family law in South Africa. {\b{}The Comparative and International Law Journal of Southern Africa}, v. 35, n. 2, p. 182\uc0\u8211{}197, 2002. \
MAKTOS, T. J. Nationality and Domestic Questions. {\b{}Proceedings of the American Society of International Law at Its Annual Meeting (1921-1969)}, v. 24, p. 46\uc0\u8211{}50, 1930. \
{\b{}{\i{}Man Proposes, God Disposes}}. , 15 set. 2025. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
MANBY, Bronwen. {\b{}Gender discrimination}: Citizenship Law in Africa. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Open Society Foundations, 2016. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.jstor.org/stable/resrep42922.16>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023.\
MANBY, Bronwen. Citizenship Law in Africa. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
MANCINI, Letizia. L\uc0\u8217{}accesso alla cittadinanza italiana. Una lettura critica. {\b{}Sociologia del Diritto}, n. 3, p. 68\uc0\u8211{}88, set. 2021. \
{\b{}Manifesta\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o da OAB sobre rompimento de coopera\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o pela Ordem de Portugal}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <http://www.oab.org.br/noticia/61160/manifestacao-da-oab-sobre-rompimento-de-cooperacao-pela-ordem-de-portugal>. Acesso em: 25 set. 2023. \
{\b{}Marianne & Hercules}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://pages.uoregon.edu/dluebke/301ModernEurope/301Week09%20Marianne%20&%20Hercules.htm>. Acesso em: 3 jan. 2026. \
{\b{}Marianne de l\uc0\u8217{}an 2000}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.senat.fr/questions/base/1999/qSEQ991221461.html>. Acesso em: 1 set. 2025. \
{\b{}Marianne: from Medusa to Messalina: psycho-sexual imagery and political propaganda in France 1789-1945.} Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.thefreelibrary.com/_/print/PrintArticle.aspx?id=126119797&cs=132909263>. Acesso em: 4 dez. 2025. \
{\b{}Marianne: from Medusa to Messalina: psycho-sexual imagery and political propaganda in France 1789-1945. - Free Online Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.thefreelibrary.com/Marianne%3A+from+Medusa+to+Messalina%3A+psycho-sexual+imagery+and...-a0126119797>. Acesso em: 5 dez. 2025. \
{\b{}Marija Gimbutas, \uc0\u8220{}The Living Goddesses, Editado e Suplementado por Miriam Robbins Dexter\uc0\u8221{}}. {\b{}Angela Natel}, 4 ago. 2023. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://angelanatel.wordpress.com/2023/08/04/marija-gimbutas-the-living-goddesses-editado-e-suplementado-por-miriam-robbins-dexter/>. Acesso em: 19 nov. 2025\
MAR\uc0\u205{}N, Ruth Rubio. Spain. {\i{}In}: BAUB\uc0\u214{}CK, Rainer {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 2: Country Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 477\uc0\u8211{}516. \
MARINHO, I. P. {\b{}Tratado s\uc0\u244{}bre a nacionalidade: Conflitos de leis em mat\uc0\u233{}ria de nacionalidade}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Departamento de Imprensa Nacional, 1956. \
MARINO, Katherine. Marta Vergara, Popular-Front Pan-American Feminism and the Transnational Struggle for Working Women\uc0\u8217{}s Rights in the 1930s (Gender &amp; History). {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
{\b{}Marriage, a History How Love Conquered Marriage (Stephanie Coontz)2006_\uc0\u8212{} (Z-Library).epub}. , {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
{\b{}Martianus Capella}. , 14 set. 2025. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
MARTIN, Xavier. The Paternal Role and the Napoleonic Code. {\i{}In}: SPAAS, Lieve (Org.). {\b{}Paternity and Fatherhood}. London: Palgrave Macmillan UK, 1998. p. 27\uc0\u8211{}39. \
MARTINS, Alessandra Affortunati. Anthropophagy and the human flesh in psychoanalysis. {\b{}In Analysis}, Anti-\uc0\u338{}dipe\uc0\u8239{}? v. 7, n. 2, p. 100365, 1 set. 2023. \
MARTYN, Georges. Introdu\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o \uc0\u224{} iconologia hist\uc0\u243{}rica do direito. {\i{}In}: XVI ENCONTROS DE HIST\uc0\u211{}RIA DO DIREITO DA UFSC. {\b{}Printing & iconology as legal-historical sources}. Grupo Interinstitucional de Pesquisa em Hist\uc0\u243{}ria da Cultura Jur\uc0\u237{}dica \uc0\u8211{} Ius Commune, 2020. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <http://hdl.handle.net/1854/LU-8679595>. Acesso em: 12 set. 2025\
MARTYN, Georges; HUYGEBAERT, Stefan. Twenty New Contributions to the Upcoming Research Field of Historical Legal Iconology. {\i{}In}: HUYGEBAERT, Stefan {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}The Art of Law: Artistic Representations and Iconography of Law and Justice in Context, from the Middle Ages to the First World War}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2018. p. 3\uc0\u8211{}24. \
MARTYN, Georges; SONTAG, Ricardo. Can criminal procedure ever be \uc0\u8220{}modern\uc0\u8221{}? A historical comparative perspective (editorial of the dossier \uc0\u8217{}History of criminal procedure in modernity\uc0\u8217{}). {\b{}REVISTA BRASILEIRA DE DIREITO PROCESSUAL PENAL}, v. 7, n. 2, p. 697\uc0\u8211{}748, 2021. \
MARZBAN, Ali. The Status of Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Nationality in the World. {\b{}International Journal of Multicultural and Multireligious Understanding}, v. 3, n. 2, 2016a. \
MARZBAN, Ali. The Status of Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Nationality in the World. {\b{}International Journal of Multicultural and Multireligious Understanding}, v. 3, p. 46, 29 jun. 2016b. \
{\b{}Masculinity and nationalism: gender and sexuality in the making of nations: Ethnic and Racial Studies: Vol 21, No 2}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/014198798330007>. Acesso em: 7 jan. 2024. \
MAYHALL, Laura E. Nym. Defining Militancy: Radical Protest, the Constitutional Idiom, and Women\uc0\u8217{}s Suffrage in Britain, 1908\uc0\u8211{}1909. {\b{}Journal of British Studies}, v. 39, n. 3, p. 340\uc0\u8211{}371, jul. 2000. \
MCCUTCHEON, Jani; MCGAUGHEY, Fiona (ORGS.). {\b{}Research Handbook on Art and Law}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Edward Elgar Publishing, 2020. \
MCGOVNEY, D. O. French Nationality Laws Imposing Nationality at Birth. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 5, n. 2, p. 325\uc0\u8211{}354, 1911a. \
MCGOVNEY, D. O. French Nationality Laws Imposing Nationality at Birth. {\b{}American Journal of International Law}, v. 5, n. 2, p. 325\uc0\u8211{}354, abr. 1911b. \
MCGOVNEY, D. O. French Nationality Laws Imposing Nationality at Birth. {\b{}American Journal of International Law}, v. 5, n. 2, p. 325\uc0\u8211{}354, abr. 1911c. \
MCKIERNAN, D. History in a national curriculum: imagining the nation at the end of the 20th century. {\b{}Journal of Curriculum Studies}, v. 25, n. 1, p. 33\uc0\u8211{}51, jan. 1993. \
{\b{}Medieval Marriage Two Models from Twelfth-Century France (Georges Duby)1991_\uc0\u8212{} (Z-Library).pdf}. , {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
MEIJER, Gerrit; MEIJER, Sjoerd Y. Th. Influence of the Code Civil in the Netherlands. {\b{}European Journal of Law and Economics}, v. 14, n. 3, p. 227\uc0\u8211{}236, 2002. \
MELION, Walter; RAMAKERS, Bart (ORGS.). {\b{}Personification: Embodying Meaning and Emotion}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Brill, 2016. \
{\b{}Memory, Metaphor, and Aby Warburg\uc0\u8217{}s Atlas of Images - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/1a3d6bc6efd85123cfaa8662e85d28c9>. Acesso em: 2 nov. 2025. \
{\b{}Mental Imagery > The Perky Experiment (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy/Fall 2021 Edition)}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://plato.stanford.edu/archives/fall2021/entries/mental-imagery/perky-experiment.html>. Acesso em: 27 dez. 2025. \
MESSADIE, Gerald. {\b{}Hist\uc0\u243{}ria Geral do Anti-Semitismo}. Rio de Janeiro: Bertrand, 2003. \
MESSINETTI, Marvin. LA CITTADINANZA ITALIANA LIBICA NELL\uc0\u8217{}ESPERIENZA COLONIALE E POSTCOLONIALE ITALIANA. (Italian). {\b{}Italian Libyan citizenship in the Italian colonial and post-colonial experience. (English)}, n. 1, p. 351\uc0\u8211{}372, jan. 2020. \
MHMOOD, Fatma; SUNIKKA-BLANK, Minna. Where\uc0\u8217{}s nature?: Women\uc0\u8217{}s narratives of public and private landscapes in the UAE. {\b{}Gender, Place & Culture}, v. 32, n. 6, p. 938\uc0\u8211{}959, 3 jun. 2025. \
MICHALS, Teresa. \uc0\u8220{}That Sole and Despotic Dominion\uc0\u8221{}: Slaves, Wives, and Game in Blackstone\uc0\u8217{}s Commentaries. {\b{}Eighteenth-Century Studies}, v. 27, n. 2, p. 195\uc0\u8211{}216, 1993. \
MIGNOT, Jean-Fran\uc0\u231{}ois. By soil and blood: Citizenship laws in the world. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
MIGUEL, Luis Felipe; BIROLI, Fl\uc0\u225{}via. {\b{}Teoria pol\uc0\u237{}tica feminista: textos centrais}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Editora da UFF, 2013. \
MILLER, Francesca. The International Relations of Women of the Americas 1890-1928. {\b{}The Americas}, v. 43, n. 2, p. 171\uc0\u8211{}182, out. 1986. \
{\b{}Mimesis}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
MOHSEN HASHEMI-NASAB ZAVAREH, Seyyed; GHAFFARIAN, Elham; GHAMKHAR, Naser. The Principles of the Dependent and Independent Nationality of Spouses: Advantages and Disadvantages. {\b{}Ius Humani, Revista de Derecho}, v. 7, p. 105\uc0\u8211{}122, 2018. \
MOLN\uc0\u193{}R, Tam\uc0\u225{}s. The Prohibition of Arbitrary Deprivation of Nationality under International Law and EU Law: New Perspectives. 1 jan. 2014. \
{\b{}MoMA | Sanja Ivekovi\uc0\u263{}: Lady Rosa of Luxembourg}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.moma.org/explore/inside_out/2011/12/01/sanja-ivekovic-lady-rosa-of-luxembourg/>. Acesso em: 6 dez. 2025a. \
{\b{}MoMA | Sanja Ivekovi\uc0\u263{}: Lady Rosa of Luxembourg}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.moma.org/explore/inside_out/2011/12/01/sanja-ivekovic-lady-rosa-of-luxembourg/>. Acesso em: 6 dez. 2025b. \
MONDZAIN, Marie\uc0\u8208{}Jos\uc0\u233{}. Can Images Kill? {\b{}Critical Inquiry}, v. 36, n. 1, p. 20\uc0\u8211{}51, jan. 2009. \
MONDZAIN, Marie\uc0\u8208{}Jos\uc0\u233{}; SHAFTO, Sally. Can Images Kill? {\b{}Critical Inquiry}, v. 36, n. 1, p. 20\uc0\u8211{}51, 2009a. \
MONDZAIN, Marie\uc0\u8208{}Jos\uc0\u233{}; SHAFTO, Sally. Can Images Kill? {\b{}Critical Inquiry}, v. 36, n. 1, p. 20\uc0\u8211{}51, 2009b. \
{\b{}Monica Juneja, Imaging The Revolution | PDF | Gender | Gender Studies}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.scribd.com/document/824177073/Monica-Juneja-Imaging-the-Revolution>. Acesso em: 3 jan. 2026a. \
{\b{}Monica Juneja, Imaging The Revolution | PDF | Gender | Gender Studies}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.scribd.com/document/824177073/Monica-Juneja-Imaging-the-Revolution>. Acesso em: 28 dez. 2025b. \
MONTEIL, Claudine. Simone De Beauvoir and the Women\uc0\u8217{}s Movement in France: An Eye-Witness Account. {\b{}Simone de Beauvoir Studies}, v. 14, p. 6\uc0\u8211{}12, 1997. \
{\b{}Monuments of International law: Albericus Gentilis and Hugo Grotius in constructing a discipline (1875-1886)}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://u-pad.unimc.it/handle/11393/114043>. Acesso em: 26 fev. 2024. \
MORELLO, Maria. Humanitas e diritto: la condizione giuridica della donna nella famiglia dell\uc0\u8217{}et\uc0\u224{} pre-moderna. {\b{}Studi Urbinati, A - Scienze giuridiche, politiche ed economiche}, v. 67, n. 3\uc0\u8211{}4, p. 367\uc0\u8211{}396, 2016. \
MORGAN, Jennifer L. {\i{}Partus sequitur ventrem}. {\b{}Small Axe: A Caribbean Journal of Criticism}, v. 22, n. 1, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}17, 1 mar. 2018a. \
MORGAN, Jennifer L. Partus sequitur ventrem: Law, Race, and Reproduction in Colonial Slavery. {\b{}Small Axe: A Caribbean Journal of Criticism}, v. 22, n. 1 (55), p. 1\uc0\u8211{}17, 1 mar. 2018b. \
MORGAN, Jennifer L. {\b{}Reckoning with Slavery: Gender, Kinship, and Capitalism in the Early Black Atlantic}. Durham, NC: Duke University Press, 2021. \
MORIGIWA, Yasutomo; STOLLEIS, Michael; HALPERIN, Jean-Louis (ORGS.). {\b{}Interpretation of Law in the Age of Enlightenment: From the Rule of the King to the Rule of Law}. Dordrecht: Springer Netherlands, 2011. v. 95\
MOSES, Claire Goldberg. {\b{}French feminism in the nineteenth century}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Albany\uc0\u8239{}: State University of New York Press, 1984. \
MOSSE, George L. {\b{}The Image of Man: The Creation of Modern Masculinity}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Oxford University Press, 1998. \
MOSSE, George L. (George Lachmann). {\b{}Nationalism and sexuality\uc0\u8239{}: respectability and abnormal sexuality in modern Europe}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: New York\uc0\u8239{}: Fertig, 1985. \
MOURLANE, St\uc0\u233{}phane {\i{}et al.} (ORGS.). {\b{}Italianness and Migration from the Risorgimento to the 1960s}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2022. \
MR, Muhammed Samy Ahmed. Adjudicating Patriarchy in the Nationality Law. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
MREKAJOVA, Eva. Facilitated Naturalization of Stateless Persons. {\b{}Tilburg Law Review (Gaunt)}, v. 19, n. Issues 1-2, p. 203\uc0\u8211{}211, 2014. \
MURPHY, J. {\b{}International Dimensions in Family Law}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Manchester University Press, 2005. \
{\b{}Muse de la Raison}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.gallimard.fr/catalogue/muse-de-la-raison/9782070328963>. Acesso em: 2 ago. 2025. \
MW-PARSER-OUTPUT .COMMONS-CREATOR-TABLE\{BACKGROUND-COLOR:#F0F0FF;BOX-SIZING:BORDER-BOX;FONT-SIZE:95%;TEXT-ALIGN:START;COLOR:INHERIT\}.MW-PARSER-OUTPUT .COMMONS-CREATOR-TABLE>TBODY>TR\{VERTICAL-ALIGN:TOP\}.MW-PARSER-OUTPUT .COMMONS-CREATOR-TABLE>TBODY>TR>TH\{BACKGROUND-COLOR:VAR. {\b{}American Progress\uc0\u160{}title QS:P1476,en:"American Progress\uc0\u160{}"label QS:Len,"American Progress\uc0\u160{}"label QS:Lit,"Progresso americano"label QS:Lfr,"American Progress"label QS:Lhe,"\uc0\u1492{}\uc0\u1511{}\uc0\u1497{}\uc0\u1491{}\uc0\u1502{}\uc0\u1492{} \uc0\u1492{}\uc0\u1488{}\uc0\u1502{}\uc0\u1512{}\uc0\u1497{}\uc0\u1511{}\uc0\u1488{}\uc0\u1497{}\uc0\u1514{}"label QS:Lpt,"Progresso Americano"label QS:Lzh,"\uc0\u32654{}\uc0\u21033{}\uc0\u22362{}\uc0\u21521{}\uc0\u21069{}\uc0\u34892{}"label QS:Lfi,"American Progress"label QS:Les,"Progreso americano"label QS:Lde,"American Fortschritt"label QS:Lml,"\uc0\u3333{}\uc0\u3374{}\uc0\u3399{}\uc0\u3376{}\uc0\u3391{}\uc0\u3349{}\uc0\u3405{}\uc0\u3349{}\uc0\u3451{} \uc0\u3370{}\uc0\u3405{}\uc0\u3376{}\uc0\u3403{}\uc0\u3351{}\uc0\u3405{}\uc0\u3376{}\uc0\u3398{}\uc0\u3384{}\uc0\u3405{}"}. , 1872. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:American_Progress_(John_Gast_painting).jpg>. Acesso em: 10 jan. 2026\
MW-PARSER-OUTPUT .COMMONS-CREATOR-TABLE\{BACKGROUND-COLOR:#F0F0FF;BOX-SIZING:BORDER-BOX;FONT-SIZE:95%;TEXT-ALIGN:START;COLOR:INHERIT\}.MW-PARSER-OUTPUT .COMMONS-CREATOR-TABLE>TBODY>TR\{VERTICAL-ALIGN:TOP\}.MW-PARSER-OUTPUT .COMMONS-CREATOR-TABLE>TBODY>TR>TH\{BACKGROUND-COLOR:VAR. {\b{}Dante Meditating the Episode of Francesca da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta\uc0\u160{}title QS:P1476,en:"Dante Meditating the Episode of Francesca da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta\uc0\u160{}"label QS:Len,"Dante Meditating the Episode of Francesca da Rimini and Paolo Malatesta\uc0\u160{}"}. , {\i{}[S.d.]}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:Joseph_Noel_Paton_(1821-1901)_-_Dante_Meditating_the_Episode_of_Francesca_da_Rimini_and_Paolo_Malatesta_-_0089-1901_-_Bury_Art_Museum.jpg>. Acesso em: 10 jan. 2026\
MYLONOPOULOS, Joannis. Amy C. Smith, Polis and Personnification in Classical Athenian Art. {\b{}Kernos. Revue internationale et pluridisciplinaire de religion grecque antique}, n. 26, p. 391\uc0\u8211{}396, 10 out. 2013. \
NAFZIGER, James A. R. The General Admission of Aliens under International Law. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 77, n. 4, p. 804\uc0\u8211{}847, 1983. \
NAGEL, Joane. Masculinity and nationalism: gender and sexuality in the making of nations. {\b{}Ethnic and Racial Studies}, v. 21, n. 2, p. 242\uc0\u8211{}269, 1 jan. 1998. \
NAHES, Semiramis. {\b{}Revista Fon Fon: a imagem da mulher no Estado Novo (1937-1945)}. S\uc0\u227{}o Paulo, SP: Arte & Ci\uc0\u234{}ncia Editora, 2007. \
{\b{}Nation and Citizenship from the Late Nineteenth Century Onwards: A Comparative European Perspective}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.europarl.europa.eu/RegData/etudes/note/join/2008/408302/IPOL-AFCO_NT(2008)408302_EN.pdf>. Acesso em: 22 out. 2023. \
Nationality in International Law. {\b{}Transactions of the Grotius Society}, v. 28, p. 151\uc0\u8211{}168, 1942. \
{\b{}Nature\uc0\u8217{}s body: gender in the making of modern science 9780813535319}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://dokumen.pub/natures-body-gender-in-the-making-of-modern-science-9780813535319.html>. Acesso em: 2 ago. 2025. \
{\b{}Nazionalit\uc0\u224{} e Apolidia Un manuale per Parlamentari}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.unhcr.org/it/wp-content/uploads/sites/97/2020/08/Nazionalit__e_apolidia_-_Manuale_per_i_parlamentari_2008.pdf>. Acesso em: 31 jan. 2023. \
NDULO, Muna. African Customary Law, Customs, and Women\uc0\u8217{}s Rights. {\b{}Indiana Journal of Global Legal Studies}, v. 18, n. 1, p. 87\uc0\u8211{}120, 2011. \
NEACSU, E. Dana. Gender-Based Persecution as a Basis for Asylum: An Annotated Bibliography, 1993-2002. {\b{}Law Library Journal}, v. 95, n. 2, p. 191\uc0\u8211{}216, 2003. \
NEDER, Gizlene; FILHO, Gis\uc0\u225{}lio Cerqueira. FORMA\uc0\u199{}\uc0\u195{}O JUR\uc0\u205{}DICA E HIST\uc0\u211{}RIA DAS FACULDADES DE DIREITO EM PORTUGAL E NO BRASIL. {\b{}Direito em Movimento}, v. 16, n. 2, p. 106\uc0\u8211{}136, 3 jul. 2018a. \
NEDER, Gizlene; FILHO, Gis\uc0\u225{}lio Cerqueira. FORMA\uc0\u199{}\uc0\u195{}O JUR\uc0\u205{}DICA E HIST\uc0\u211{}RIA DAS FACULDADES DE DIREITO EM PORTUGAL E NO BRASIL. {\b{}Direito em Movimento}, v. 16, n. 2, p. 106\uc0\u8211{}136, 3 jul. 2018b. \
NELSON, Elizabeth Eowyn. Embodying Persephone\uc0\u8217{}s Desire: Authentic Movement and Underworld Transformation. {\b{}Journal of Jungian Scholarly Studies}, v. 11, p. 5\uc0\u8211{}17, 1 jun. 2016. \
NEUMAN, Gerald L. The Resilience of Nationality. {\b{}Proceedings of the Annual Meeting (American Society of International Law)}, v. 101, p. 97\uc0\u8211{}99, 2007. \
NEUMANN, Erich {\i{}et al.} {\b{}The Fear of the Feminine: And Other Essays on Feminine Psychology}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Princeton University Press, 1994. v. 22\
{\b{}New York University | Bobst Library: Microform Collections -- Fin-de-Si\uc0\u232{}cle Symbolist and Avant-Garde Periodicals}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://web.archive.org/web/20060901074354/http://library.nyu.edu/research/french/symbolism.html>. Acesso em: 27 dez. 2025. \
NEWMAN, Brooke N. Blood Fictions, Maternal Inheritance, and the Legacies of Colonial Slavery. {\b{}WSQ: Women\uc0\u8217{}s Studies Quarterly}, v. 48, n. 1, p. 27\uc0\u8211{}44, 2020. \
NICOLOSI, Ann Marie. \uc0\u8220{}We Do Not Want Our Girls to Marry Foreigners\uc0\u8221{}: Gender, Race, and American Citizenship. {\b{}NWSA Journal}, v. 13, n. 3, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}21, 2001a. \
NICOLOSI, Ann Marie. \uc0\u8220{}We Do Not Want Our Girls to Marry Foreigners\uc0\u8221{}: Gender, Race, and American Citizenship. {\b{}NWSA Journal}, v. 13, n. 3, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}21, 2001b. \
NONE. {\b{}The Oxford encyclopedia of women in world history}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Oxford [England]\uc0\u8239{}; New York\uc0\u8239{}: Oxford University Press, 2008. \
{\b{}O Culto Moderno dos Monumentos - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/5c86c3cbad74aace5984413db21c1ca7>. Acesso em: 7 set. 2025. \
{\b{}O MATRIARCADO NO PROGRAMA ANTROPOF\uc0\u193{}GICO: Oswald de Andrade, leitor de Bachofen}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Universidade Federal de Santa Catarina, 2016.\
{\b{}O pensamento vivo de Oswald de Andrade - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/2d7a62e6a3fd2a18fc9a28a97fd3a3eb>. Acesso em: 10 set. 2025. \
{\b{}O PROJETO PAU BRASIL: NACIONALISMO E INVENTIVIDADE}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://unicamp.br/~boaventu/page13d.htm>. Acesso em: 10 set. 2025. \
{\b{}O uso simb\uc0\u243{}lico do feminino como Na\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o e como P\uc0\u225{}tria - Arno e Ana}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://docs.google.com/document/d/1crxhWWupmnfRKgQzNk8Tc_1Nm6MZl0xW-kxLV3vE9o0/edit?usp=embed_facebook>. Acesso em: 10 abr. 2024. \
O&AMP, Aoife; APOS; DONOGHUE. \uc0\u8220{}THE ADMIXTURE OF FEMININE WEAKNESS AND SUSCEPTIBILITY\uc0\u8221{}: GENDERED PERSONIFICATIONS OF THE STATE IN INTERNATIONAL LAW. {\b{}Melbourne Journal of International Law}, v. 19, n. 1, p. 227\uc0\u8211{}259, 1 jul. 2018. \
{\b{}Obras completas Vol 6 - Do Pau-Brasil \uc0\u224{} Antropofagia e \uc0\u224{}s utopias - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/36f2adfb9fb6ac66f186252fe2358661>. Acesso em: 10 set. 2025. \
O\uc0\u8217{}CONNOR, Sandra Day. The Legal Status of Women: The Journey toward Equality. {\b{}Journal of Law and Religion}, v. 15, n. 1/2, p. 29\uc0\u8211{}36, 2000. \
O\uc0\u8217{}DONOGHUE, Aoife. The Admixture of Feminine Weakness and Susceptibility\uc0\u8217{}: Gendered Personifications of the State in International Law. {\b{}Melbourne Journal of International Law}, 2018a. \
O\uc0\u8217{}DONOGHUE, Aoife. The Admixture of Feminine Weakness and Susceptibility\uc0\u8217{}: Gendered Personifications of the State in International Law. {\b{}Melbourne Journal of International Law}, 2018b. \
O\uc0\u8217{}DONOGHUE, Aoife. Bluntschli, c\uc0\u8217{}est moi? International legal history and hagiography. {\b{}Transnational Legal Theory}, v. 15, n. 1, p. 67\uc0\u8211{}102, 16 maio 2024. \
OLIVEIRA, Felipe Antunes de; DOBKE, Estudio Dos Rios +. {\b{}Como desbolsonarizar o Itamaraty}. {\b{}Jacobin Brasil}, 4 dez. 2022. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://jacobin.com.br/2022/12/como-desbolsonarizar-o-itamaraty/>. Acesso em: 6 set. 2023\
OLIVEIRA, Mara Regina De. DIREITO, ARTE E ANTROPOFAGIA. {\b{}Conpedi Law Review}, v. 9, n. 1, p. 295\uc0\u8211{}311, 15 dez. 2023. \
OMAR, Karima. National Symbolism in Constructions of Gender: Transformed Symbols in Post-Conflict States. 2004. \
{\b{}OneDrive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://onedrive.live.com/?redeem=aHR0cHM6Ly8xZHJ2Lm1zL2IvcyFBc0tzUUlZeEY2MGRqa25OdGRSenlGNjduaW9MP2U9aFdpQU9r&cid=1DAD17318640ACC2&id=1DAD17318640ACC2%211865&parId=1DAD17318640ACC2%211848&o=OneUp>. Acesso em: 7 set. 2025a. \
{\b{}OneDrive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://onedrive.live.com/?redeem=aHR0cHM6Ly8xZHJ2Lm1zL2IvcyFBc0tzUUlZeEY2MGRqajlOY0JrSll2TUZaZVl0P2U9dEFKRnVX&cid=1DAD17318640ACC2&id=1DAD17318640ACC2%211855&parId=1DAD17318640ACC2%211848&o=OneUp>. Acesso em: 7 set. 2025b. \
Opinion | Statue of Liberty Stands Also as a Powerful Feminist Symbol. {\b{}The New York Times}, 15 jul. 1986. \
ORFORD, Anne. The Destiny of International Law. {\b{}Leiden Journal of International Law}, v. 17, n. 3, p. 441\uc0\u8211{}476, 2004. \
ORFORD, Anne. {\b{}The Past as Law or History? The Relevance of Imperialism for Modern International Law}. Rochester, NY, 9 set. 2011. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=2090434>. Acesso em: 26 out. 2023\
ORMROD, W. Mark. {\b{}Women and Parliament in Later Medieval England}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2020. \
OSTOS, Natascha Stefania Carvalho. Terra adorada, m\uc0\u227{}e gentil: representa\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u245{}es do feminino e da natureza no Brasil da Era vargas, 1930-1945. 29 abr. 2009. \
OTTO, Dianne. \uc0\u8220{}Taking a Break\uc0\u8221{} from \uc0\u8220{}Normal\uc0\u8221{}: Thinking Queer in the Context of International Law. {\b{}Proceedings of the Annual Meeting (American Society of International Law)}, v. 10, p. 119\uc0\u8211{}122, 2007. \
OYEW\uc0\u217{}M\uc0\u205{}, Oy\uc0\u232{}r\uc0\u243{}nk\uc0\u233{}; NASCIMENTO, Wanderson Flor do; MIRANDA, Claudia. {\b{}A inven\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o das mulheres: construindo um sentido africano para os discursos ocidentais de g\uc0\u234{}nero}. 1\super a\nosupersub{} ed ed. Rio de Janeiro: Bazar do Tempo, 2021. \
PACE, Roberta. {\b{}Identit\uc0\u224{} e diritti delle donne: per una cittadinanza di genere nella formazione}. Firenze: Firenze University Press, 2010. \
PAGE, Dorothy. {\b{}\uc0\u8217{}A married woman, or a minor, lunatic or idiot\uc0\u8217{}\uc0\u8239{}: the struggle of British women against disability in nationality, 1914-1933}. Thesis\uc0\u8212{}{\i{}[S.l.]}: University of Otago, 1984.\
PAGLIA, Camille. {\b{}Glittering Images: A Journey Through Art from Egypt to Star Wars}. New York: Vintage, 2013. \
PAGLIANO, Emilio M. De l\uc0\u8217{}Acquisition de la Nationalite Italienne Depuis la Loi du 17 Mai 1906. {\b{}Journal du Droit International Prive et de la Jurisprudence Comparee}, v. 34, n. 3\uc0\u8211{}4, p. 306\uc0\u8211{}313, 1907. \
PANOFSKY, Erwin. {\b{}Meaning in the Visual Arts: Papers in and on Art History}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: University of Chicago Press, 1955. \
PATEMAN, Carole. {\b{}O contrato sexual}. Tradu\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o: Marta Avancini. Rio de Janeiro: Paz e Terra, 1993. \
{\b{}PayPal: Detalhes da transa\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.paypal.com/myaccount/activities/details/7US585592U0766210?intent=xo_email_txn_details&src=RT001736&source=RT001736&ref_id=7US585592U0766210&url_clicked_desc=txn-id-hyperlink&link_ref=link-transaction_id&v=1&utm_source=unp&utm_medium=email&utm_campaign=RT001736&utm_unptid=053e2178-3fba-11f0-8a85-bff1792acbb2&ppid=RT001736&cnac=BR&rsta=pt_BR%28pt-BR%29&cust=23DDEHHTQ89WE&unptid=053e2178-3fba-11f0-8a85-bff1792acbb2&calc=f268597021f9e&unp_tpcid=email-receipt-member-sale-transaction-rt001736&page=main%3Aemail%3ART001736&pgrp=main%3Aemail&e=cl&mchn=em&s=ci&mail=sys&appVersion=1.333.0&xt=145585%2C153293%2C157261%2C146083%2C152228%2C152217%2C153583%2C157167%2C160384%2C160611%2C153590%2C153587%2C141835%2C153595%2C153592%2C147251%2C143971%2C154413%2C104038>. Acesso em: 2 jun. 2025. \
(PDF) The Maid of Holland and Her Heroic Heiresses. {\i{}In}: {\b{}ResearchGate}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
PEDEN, Kelsey. Stateless by Sex: An Evaluation of Sex Discrimination in Nationality Laws, and their Effects on Statelessness. {\b{}Berkeley Journal of International Law}, v. 39, n. 2, p. 351\uc0\u8211{}377, jul. 2021. \
PEDRAZA, Silvia. Women and Migration: The Social Consequences of Gender. {\b{}Annual Review of Sociology}, v. 17, p. 303\uc0\u8211{}325, 1991. \
{\b{}Pensar a Imagem (Em Portuguese do Brasil) - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/6ef0b29773ad08ff840cb3bd16d4c9d6>. Acesso em: 23 nov. 2025. \
PEREIRA, Paulo Henrique Rodrigues. FACULDADE DE DIREITO DO LARGO DE S\uc0\u195{}O FRANCISCO. {\b{}S\uc0\u227{}o Paulo}, 2022. \
{\b{}Perspective as Symbolic Form | Erwin Panofsky | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://z-lib.gl/book/1057912/08a1eb/perspective-as-symbolic-form.html>. Acesso em: 11 dez. 2024. \
PETERS, Emily J. Processional Print Series in Antwerp during the Dutch Revolt. {\b{}Print Quarterly}, v. 32, n. 3, p. 259\uc0\u8211{}270, 2015. \
PETERS, Floris; SCHMEETS, Hans; VINK, Maarten Peter. Naturalisation and immigrant earnings\uc0\u8239{}: why and to whom citizenship matters. {\b{}European journal of population}, v. 36, p. 511\uc0\u8211{}545, 2020. \
PETERSEN, Hanne; MADSEN, Rasmus. On Justice, Beauty and Health \uc0\u8211{} Pluralist Approaches. {\b{}Nordic Journal on Law and Society}, v. 3, 28 jan. 2021. \
PETERSON, Professor of International Relations School of Government and Public Policy V. Spike. {\b{}Revisiting Gendered States: Feminist Imaginings of the State in International Relations}. New York, NY: Oxford University Press, USA, 2018. \
PEZAT, Paulo Ricardo. Carlos Torres Gon\uc0\u231{}alves e o sexo altru\uc0\u237{}sta: a convers\uc0\u227{}o feminina \uc0\u224{} Religi\uc0\u227{}o da Humanidade em Porto Alegre no come\uc0\u231{}o do s\uc0\u233{}culo XX. {\b{}Anos 90}, v. 14, n. 25, p. 99\uc0\u8211{}138, 1 jul. 2007. \
PHILIPSE, A. H. Nationalite a la Premiere Conference de Codification, La Acta Scandanavica Juris Gentium. {\b{}Nordisk Tidsskrift for International Ret}, v. 2, p. 85\uc0\u8211{}94, 1931. \
PHILLIMORE, G. G. Nationality of Married Women. {\b{}Journal of the Society of Comparative Legislation}, v. 17, n. 1/2, p. 165\uc0\u8211{}171, 1917. \
PIERCE, Helen. {\b{}Unseemly pictures\uc0\u8239{}: graphic satire and politics in early modern England}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: New Haven [Conn.]\uc0\u8239{}; London\uc0\u8239{}: Yale University Press for The Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art, 2008. \
PIHLAJAM\uc0\u196{}KI, Heikki. Contextos Comparativos em Hist\uc0\u243{}ria do Direito: somos todos comparatistas agora? {\b{}Seq\uc0\u252{}\uc0\u234{}ncia: Estudos Jur\uc0\u237{}dicos e Pol\uc0\u237{}ticos}, v. 36, n. 70, p. 57, 17 jun. 2015. \
PIPKIN, Amanda. Women\uc0\u8217{}s Writing during the Dutch Revolt: the Religious Authority and Political Agenda of Cornelia and Susanna Teellinck, 1554\uc0\u8211{}1625. {\i{}In}: {\b{}Women and Gender in the Early Modern Low Countries, 1500 - 1750}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Brill, 2019. p. 32\uc0\u8211{}67. \
PLENDER, Richard. The New French Nationality Law. {\b{}The International and Comparative Law Quarterly}, v. 23, n. 4, p. 709\uc0\u8211{}747, 1974. \
POGGI, Francesca. Sobre el concepto de violencia de g\uc0\u233{}nero y su relevancia para el derecho. {\b{}Doxa. Cuadernos de Filosof\uc0\u237{}a del Derecho}, n. 42, p. 285, 23 dez. 2019. \
{\b{}Poland the Woman: How the Polonia Allegory Weaved Her Way into Art History | Article}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://culture.pl/en/article/poland-the-woman-how-the-polonia-allegory-weaved-her-way-into-art-history>. Acesso em: 31 ago. 2025. \
POMEROY, Sarah. {\b{}Goddesses, Whores, Wives, and Slaves: Women in Classical Antiquity}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Knopf Doubleday Publishing Group, 1995. \
POMIANOWSKI, Piotr Z. Marriage Through the Ages. {\i{}In}: {\b{}Napoleonic Divorce Law in Poland (1808-1852)}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Brill Nijhoff, 2022. p. 10\uc0\u8211{}61. \
PORTALIS, Jean-\uc0\u201{}tienne-Marie. Discurso preliminar sobre el proyecto de C\uc0\u243{}digo civil. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
P\uc0\u214{}TZSCHKE, Steffen; RINKEN, Sebastian (ORGS.). {\b{}Migration Research in a Digitized World: Using Innovative Technology to Tackle Methodological Challenges}. Cham: Springer International Publishing, 2022. \
POWELL, Catherine. What if Women Ran the World Would it be a Better Place?: International Law as Gender Performance. {\b{}SSRN Electronic Journal}, 2015. \
POWELLT, Catherine. How Women Could Save the World, If Only We Would Let Them: From Gender Essentialism to Inclusive Security. {\b{}Yale Journal of Law and Feminism}, v. 28, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
PRADHAN, Rajendra. Legal Pluralism, Cultural Contestation and Gender (In)justice: An Interpretation of Women\uc0\u700{}s Rights Cases in the Supreme Court of Nepal. 20 out. 2010. \
PREDELLI, Line Nyhagen; HALSAA, Beatrice; THUN, Cecilie. \uc0\u8216{}Citizenship Is Not a Word I Use\uc0\u8217{}: How Women\uc0\u8217{}s Movement Activists Understand Citizenship. {\b{}Remaking Citizenship in Multicultural Europe}, p. 188, 2012. \
{\b{}Prima lezione di diritto | Paolo Grossi | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://1lib.sk/book/5269230/29ee1d/prima-lezione-di-diritto.html>. Acesso em: 24 ago. 2025. \
{\b{}Psychoanalytic Concepts of Fatherhood: Patriarchal Paradoxes and the Presence of an Absent Authority}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/epdf/10.1080/15240650801935156?needAccess=true>. Acesso em: 14 jan. 2024. \
Q2622549 {\i{}et al.} {\b{}File:1916 Dutch East Indies - Art.jpg - Wikipedia}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://commons.wikimedia.org/wiki/File:1916_Dutch_East_Indies_-_Art.jpg>. Acesso em: 19 nov. 2025. \
RACKLEY, Erika; AUCHMUTY, Rosemary. The Case for Feminist Legal History. {\b{}Oxford Journal of Legal Studies}, v. 40, n. 4, p. 878\uc0\u8211{}904, Winter 2020. \
RAMASWAMY, Sumathi. {\b{}The Goddess and the Nation: Mapping Mother India}. Duhram: Duke University Press, 2010. \
RAO, Balagangadhara. {\b{}Comparative science of cultures and the universality of religion\uc0\u8239{}: an essay on worlds without views and views without the world}. dissertation\uc0\u8212{}{\i{}[S.l.]}: Ghent University, 1991.\
RAPP, Rayna (ORG.). {\b{}Toward an anthropology of women}. New York: Monthly Review Press, 1975. \
RASILLA, Ignacio de la. Concepci\uc0\u243{}n Arenal and the place of women in modern international law. {\b{}Tijdschrift voor Rechtsgeschiedenis / Revue d\uc0\u8217{}histoire du droit / The Legal History Review}, v. 88, n. 1\uc0\u8211{}2, p. 211\uc0\u8211{}253, 25 jun. 2020. \
{\b{}Reading Hegel: The Introductions (Transmission) - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/c8721626c4fd0e804d126e6f77246f2f>. Acesso em: 8 nov. 2025. \
{\b{}Reading the body politic\uc0\u8239{}: feminist criticism and Latin American women writers - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/9a5660d60f44d104fe2c5fbb77dd9c77>. Acesso em: 22 nov. 2025. \
{\b{}Realms of memory\uc0\u8239{}: the construction of the French past. volume I, Conflicts and divisions}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: New York\uc0\u8239{}: Columbia University Press, 1996. \
{\b{}Re-enchanting the World: Feminism and the Politics of the Commons (KAIROS) - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/eaba7fd3c2e49fdd5baf5b9f5049f8a5>. Acesso em: 26 dez. 2025. \
REEVES, J. S. Nationality of Married Women. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 17, n. 1, p. 97\uc0\u8211{}100, 1923. \
REGASTO, Saverio F. BREVI NOTE SULLA CITTADINANZA NELL\uc0\u8217{}ORDINAMENTO FRANCESE. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
REID, Fiona; WARD, Stephanie. Women, State and Nation: creating gendered identities. {\b{}Women\uc0\u8217{}s History Review}, v. 24, n. 1, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}6, 2 jan. 2015a. \
REID, Fiona; WARD, Stephanie. Women, State and Nation: creating gendered identities. {\b{}Women\uc0\u8217{}s History Review}, v. 24, n. 1, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}6, 2 jan. 2015b. \
REIS, Patr\uc0\u237{}cia Carvalho. RAINER FORST: UM DISC\uc0\u205{}PULO DA TEORIA CR\uc0\u205{}TICA? {\b{}S\uc0\u237{}ntese: Revista de Filosofia}, v. 50, n. 156, p. 159\uc0\u8211{}159, 28 abr. 2023. \
{\b{}Research Guide to Belgian Law}. {\b{}GlobaLex | Foreign and International Law Research}, {\i{}[S.d.]}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.nyulawglobal.org/globalex>. Acesso em: 8 set. 2025\
{\b{}Revolution at Point Zero. Housework, Reproduction, and Feminist Struggle - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/4751fe838bf9ffc7b0ada1e9b10fc9af>. Acesso em: 26 dez. 2025. \
RICE, Daniel B. The Riddle of Ruth Bryan Owen. {\b{}SSRN Electronic Journal}, 2015. \
RICH, Adrienne. Heterossexualidade compuls\uc0\u243{}ria e exist\uc0\u234{}ncia l\uc0\u233{}sbica. {\b{}Bagoas - Estudos gays: g\uc0\u234{}neros e sexualidades}, v. 4, n. 05, 2010. \
RIEGL, Alois. {\b{}O culto moderno dos monumentos: Sua hist\uc0\u243{}ria e suas origens}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Perspectiva, 2024. \
ROBBIO, Mat\uc0\u237{}as Fernandez. Musas y escritoras: el primer canon de la literatura femenina de la Grecia antigua (AP IX 26). {\b{}Praesentia, v. 15}, 1 jan. 2014. \
ROBERTS, Edited by Anthea {\i{}et al.} (ORGS.). {\b{}Comparative International Law}. Oxford, New York: Oxford University Press, 2018. \
ROCHETON, Julie. {\b{}Among the Voices of the French Revolution: Olympe de Gouges\uc0\u8217{} Political and Legal Pamphlets}. Rochester, NYSocial Science Research Network, , 15 jul. 2025. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=5361364>. Acesso em: 13 dez. 2025\
RODAS, Jo\uc0\u227{}o Grandino; MONACO, Gustavo Ferraz de Campos. {\b{}A Confer\uc0\u234{}ncia da Haia de Direito Internacional Privado: a participa\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o do Brasil}. Bras\uc0\u237{}lia: Funda\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o Alexandre de Gusm\uc0\u227{}o, 2007. \
RODINO, Walter. Outlines for a Bibliography on Uniform Law. {\b{}Law Library Journal}, v. 66, n. 3, p. 272\uc0\u8211{}285, 1973. \
ROSA, Alberto; VALSINER, Jaan (ORGS.). {\b{}The Cambridge Handbook of Sociocultural Psychology}. 2. ed. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press, 2018. \
ROZIN, Orit. {\b{}A Home for All Jews: Citizenship, Rights, and National Identity in the New Israeli State}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Brandeis University Press, 2016. \
RUBENSTEIN, Kim. Rethinking Nationality in International Law. {\b{}Proceedings of the Annual Meeting (American Society of International Law)}, v. 101, p. 99\uc0\u8211{}102, 2007. \
RUBENSTEIN, Kim; ADLER, Daniel. International Citizenship: The Future of Nationality in a Globalized World. {\b{}INDIANA JOURNAL OF GLOBAL LEGAL STUDIES}, v. 7, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
RUBIN, Gayle S. Thinking Sex: Notes for a Radical Theory of the Politics of Sexuality. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
R\uc0\u220{}TTE, Barbara von. Domaine R\uc0\u233{}serv\uc0\u233{}?: Statehood, Sovereignty and Nationality. {\i{}In}: {\b{}The Human Right to Citizenship}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Brill Nijhoff, 2022a. p. 58\uc0\u8211{}86. \
R\uc0\u220{}TTE, Barbara von. Defining the Right to Nationality: Rights and Obligations. {\i{}In}: {\b{}The Human Right to Citizenship}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Brill Nijhoff, 2022b. p. 212\uc0\u8211{}328. \
R\uc0\u220{}TTE, Barbara von. The Human Right to Citizenship: Situating the Right to Citizenship within International and Regional Human Rights Law. {\i{}In}: {\b{}The Human Right to Citizenship}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Brill Nijhoff, 2022c. \
{\b{}{\i{}Sacred and Profane Love}}. , 12 jul. 2025. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
SAFI, Michael. Lady Justice statue in Bangladesh is removed after Islamist objections. {\b{}The Guardian}, 26 maio 2017. \
SAFRAN, William. State, Nation, National Identity, and Citizenship: France as a Test Case. {\b{}International Political Science Review / Revue internationale de science politique}, v. 12, n. 3, p. 219\uc0\u8211{}238, 1991. \
SAFRAN, William. Citizenship and Nationality in Democratic Systems: Approaches to Defining and Acquiring Membership in the Political Community. {\b{}International Political Science Review / Revue internationale de science politique}, v. 18, n. 3, p. 313\uc0\u8211{}335, 1997. \
SAINSBURY, Diane. Gender differentiation and citizenship acquisition: Nationality reforms in comparative and historical perspective. {\b{}Women\uc0\u8217{}s Studies International Forum}, v. 68, p. 28\uc0\u8211{}35, 1 maio 2018. \
SALAS, Jos\uc0\u233{} Miguel G\uc0\u225{}mez. La condena del g\uc0\u233{}nero femenino a trav\uc0\u233{}s de la simbolog\uc0\u237{}a / The Condemnation of the Feminine Gender through the Symbology. {\b{}Aspark\uc0\u237{}a. Investigaci\uc0\u243{} feminista}, n. 31, p. 131\uc0\u8211{}146, 27 dez. 2017a. \
SALAS, Jos\uc0\u233{} Miguel G\uc0\u225{}mez. La condena del g\uc0\u233{}nero femenino a trav\uc0\u233{}s de la simbolog\uc0\u237{}a / The Condemnation of the Feminine Gender through the Symbology. {\b{}Aspark\uc0\u237{}a. Investigaci\uc0\u243{} feminista}, n. 31, p. 131\uc0\u8211{}146, 27 dez. 2017b. \
SALAS, Jos\uc0\u233{} Miguel G\uc0\u225{}mez. La condena del g\uc0\u233{}nero femenino a trav\uc0\u233{}s de la simbolog\uc0\u237{}a / The Condemnation of the Feminine Gender through the Symbology. {\b{}Aspark\uc0\u237{}a. Investigaci\uc0\u243{} feminista}, n. 31, p. 131\uc0\u8211{}146, 27 dez. 2017c. \
SAMORE, William. Statelessness as a Consequence of the Conflict of Nationality Laws. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 45, n. 3, p. 476\uc0\u8211{}494, 1951. \
SAMUEL, Sharita. Women Married in Customary Law: No Longer Permanent Minors. {\b{}Agenda: Empowering Women for Gender Equity}, n. 40, p. 23\uc0\u8211{}31, 1999. \
SANTUCCI, Marcelo Lannes; LYRA, Eden Gattas. A RECIPROCIDADE BRASIL X PORTUGAL PARA O EXERC\uc0\u205{}CIO DA ADVOCACIA. v. 10, 2019. \
SAPIRO, Virginia. Women, Citizenship, and Nationality: Immigration and Naturalization Policies in the United States. {\b{}Politics & Society}, v. 13, n. 1, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}26, 1984. \
SASHALMI, Endre. Political Theology and the Emergence of Female Personifications of Russia in Visual Sources from a European Perspective: The Petrine Period as a Watershed. {\b{}Russian History}, v. 45, n. 1, p. 70\uc0\u8211{}85, 2018. \
SAUNDERS, David B. Historians and Concepts of Nationality in Early Nineteenth-Century Russia. {\b{}The Slavonic and East European Review}, v. 60, n. 1, p. 44\uc0\u8211{}62, 1982. \
SAVIGNY, Friedrich Karl von. {\b{}Metodologia jur\uc0\u237{}dica}. Campinas: Edicamp, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
SBRICCOLI, Mario. Hist\uc0\u243{}ria do Direito e Hist\uc0\u243{}ria da Sociedade: Quest\uc0\u245{}es de M\uc0\u233{}todo e Problemas de Pesquisa. {\b{}Seq\uc0\u252{}\uc0\u234{}ncia: Estudos Jur\uc0\u237{}dicos e Pol\uc0\u237{}ticos}, v. 41, n. 82, p. 288\uc0\u8211{}312, 5 dez. 2019a. \
SBRICCOLI, Mario. Hist\uc0\u243{}ria do Direito e Hist\uc0\u243{}ria da Sociedade: Quest\uc0\u245{}es de M\uc0\u233{}todo e Problemas de Pesquisa. {\b{}Seq\uc0\u252{}\uc0\u234{}ncia: Estudos Jur\uc0\u237{}dicos e Pol\uc0\u237{}ticos}, v. 41, n. 82, p. 288\uc0\u8211{}312, 5 dez. 2019b. \
SCHIRATO, Tony. The politics of forgetting: Freud, Totem and Taboo and the exclusion of women. {\b{}Australian Feminist Studies}, v. 7, n. 15, p. 57\uc0\u8211{}63, 1 mar. 1992. \
SCHOTT, Robin. Arendt, Natality, and the Refugee Crisis. {\i{}In}: {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. p. 143\uc0\u8211{}157. \
SCHROVER, Marlou; MOLONEY, Deirdre. Gender, migration and cross-categorical research. 2023. \
{\b{}Sci-Hub | | 10.2307/752484}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://sci-hub.se/10.2307/752484>. Acesso em: 25 mar. 2024. \
{\b{}Sci-Hub | | 10.2307/753169}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://sci-hub.se/10.2307/753169>. Acesso em: 2 abr. 2024. \
{\b{}Sci-Hub | Marriage and Women\uc0\u8217{}s Citizenship in the United States, 1830-1934. The American Historical Review, 103(5), 1440 | 10.2307/2649963}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://sci-hub.se/10.2307/2649963>. Acesso em: 28 maio. 2024. \
SCOTT, James Brown. PROBLEMS OF NATIONALITY: International Status of Married Women. {\b{}Advocate of Peace through Justice}, v. 91, n. 3, p. 137\uc0\u8211{}140, 1929. \
SCOTT, James Brown. Nationality: {\i{}Jus Soli} or {\i{}Jus Sanguinis}. {\b{}American Journal of International Law}, v. 24, n. 1, p. 58\uc0\u8211{}64, jan. 1930. \
SCOTT, Joan; DABAT, Christine Rufino; \uc0\u193{}VILA, Maria Bet\uc0\u226{}nia. G\uc0\u202{}NERO: UMA CATEGORIA \uc0\u218{}TIL PARA AN\uc0\u193{}LISE HIST\uc0\u211{}RICA. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
SCOTT, Joan Wallach. {\b{}Only paradoxes to offer: French feminists and the rights of man}. Cambridge, Mass: Harvard University Press, 1996. \
SEEMANN, Anika. Struggles for Belonging: Citizenship in Europe, 1900\uc0\u8211{}2020. {\b{}German History}, v. 40, n. 2, p. 295\uc0\u8211{}296, 1 jun. 2022. \
SEGER, Bruce H. Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Citizenship in the United States for a Century and a Half: An Overview. {\b{}Journal of Research on Women and Gender}, v. 2, n. 1, 2011. \
{\b{}Self-construal indipendente e interdipendente e identit\uc0\u224{} sociale. Dati preliminari su un campione italiano}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://flore.unifi.it/handle/2158/223735>. Acesso em: 31 jan. 2023. \
SERTORIO, Guido. {\b{}La cittadinanza italiana ai nati dalle unioni extraconiugali di italiani con donne somale\uc0\u8239{}: commento a sentenza 23 giugno 1969 n. 2248 del Tribunale di Torino / Guido F. Sertorio}. {\b{}La cittadinanza italiana ai nati dalle unioni extraconiugali di italiani con donne somale commento a sentenza 23 giugno 1969 n. 2248 del Tribunale di Torino}\\Italias.n, , 1970. \
{\b{}{\i{}Sess\uc0\u227{}o do Conselho de Estado}}. , 25 ago. 2023. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
{\b{}Sete Manifestos Dada | PDF}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://pt.scribd.com/document/469767962/Sete-manifestos-dada>. Acesso em: 10 set. 2025. \
{\b{}Seven Dada Manifestos and Lampisteries 1847493629}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://dokumen.pub/seven-dada-manifestos-and-lampisteries-1847493629.html>. Acesso em: 10 set. 2025. \
SEVHAGE. {\b{}Compass Rose [CNF] | Abasi-maenyin Esebre}. {\b{}sevhage}, 4 ago. 2025. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://sevhage.com/2025/08/04/compassrose-abasi/>. Acesso em: 13 dez. 2025\
SHACHAR, Ayelet. {\b{}The birthright lottery: citizenship and global inequality}. Cambridge, Mass: Harvard University Press, 2009. \
SHAHEEN, Neda. Discriminatory Nationality Laws Must Be Eliminated In Order To Eradicate Statelessness. v. 11, 2018. \
SHAW, Julia J. A. Worth a Thousand Words: The Unwritten History of Law as a Jurisprudence of Text and Pictures Book Review. {\b{}International Journal for the Semiotics of Law}, v. 32, n. 3, p. 753\uc0\u8211{}758, 2019. \
SHEHADEH, Lamia Rustum. The Legal Status of Married Women in Lebanon. {\b{}International Journal of Middle East Studies}, v. 30, n. 4, p. 501\uc0\u8211{}519, 1998. \
SHEHADEH, Lamia Rustum. Gender-Relevant Legal Change in Lebanon. {\b{}Feminist Formations}, v. 22, n. 3, p. 210\uc0\u8211{}228, 2010. \
SHIRLEY, Rodney. Allegorical images of Europe in some atlas titlepages, frontispieces, and map cartouches. {\b{}Belgeo. Revue belge de g\uc0\u233{}ographie}, n. 3\uc0\u8211{}4, p. 341\uc0\u8211{}354, 31 dez. 2008. \
SIMIONI, Rafael Lazzarotto. Reflex\uc0\u245{}es metodol\uc0\u243{}gicas para pesquisas sobre direito e artes visuais. {\b{}ANAMORPHOSIS - Revista Internacional de Direito e Literatura}, v. 11, n. 1, p. e1227\uc0\u8211{}e1227, 8 jan. 2025. \
SIMMONS, Christina. {\b{}Making marriage modern: women\uc0\u8217{}s sexuality from the Progressive Era to World War II}. Oxford\uc0\u8239{}; New York: Oxford University Press, 2009. \
{\b{}Simulacro e Simula\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/1d6b3b3d3adbcffd59613e78da474b26>. Acesso em: 28 dez. 2025. \
SINHA, Mrinalini. {\b{}Colonial Masculinity: The \uc0\u8220{}manly Englishman\uc0\u8221{} and The\uc0\u8217{} Effeminate Bengali\uc0\u8217{} in the Late Nineteenth Century}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Manchester University Press, 1995. \
SINHA, Mrinalini. {\b{}Specters of Mother India\uc0\u8239{}: the global restructuring of an Empire}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Durham\uc0\u8239{}: Duke University Press, 2006. \
SINISCALCHI, Guglielmo. Visual Legal Signs. {\b{}Teoria e Critica della Regolazione Sociale / Theory and Criticism of Social Regulation}, v. 2, n. 9, p. 51\uc0\u8211{}56, 2014. \
SINKE, Suzanne M. Gender and Migration: Historical Perspectives. {\b{}The International Migration Review}, v. 40, n. 1, p. 82\uc0\u8211{}103, 2006. \
SIQUEIRA, Rog\uc0\u233{}rio Monteiro de. Bibliotecas positivistas, cat\uc0\u225{}logos e outras listas: como pensam os livreiros e os algoritmos? {\b{}Tempo}, v. 29, p. 22\uc0\u8211{}45, 2023. \
SLATER, Avery. Jus Sanguinis, Jus Soli: West German Citizenship Law and the Melodrama of the Guest Worker in Fassbinder\uc0\u8217{}s Angst Essen Seele Auf. {\b{}Cultural Critique}, v. 86, p. 92\uc0\u8211{}118, 2014. \
SLUGA, Glenda. Madame de Sta\uc0\u235{}l and the Transformation of European Politics, 1812\uc0\u8211{}17. {\b{}The International History Review}, v. 37, n. 1, p. 142\uc0\u8211{}166, jan. 2015. \
SMART, Carol. Law\uc0\u8217{}s Power, the Sexed Body, and Feminist Discourse. {\b{}Journal of Law and Society}, v. 17, n. 2, p. 194\uc0\u8211{}210, 1990. \
SMART, Carol. La teor\uc0\u237{}a feminista y el discurso jur\uc0\u237{}dico. {\i{}In}: BIRGIN, Hayd\uc0\u233{}e (Org.). {\b{}El Derecho en el g\uc0\u233{}nero y el g\uc0\u233{}nero en el Derecho}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Editorial Biblos, 2000. p. 31\uc0\u8211{}71. \
SMART, Carol. A mulher do discurso jur\uc0\u237{}dico. v. 11, p. 22, 2020. \
SMITH, Amy C. {\b{}Polis and Personification in Classical Athenian Art}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: BRILL, 2011. \
SOARES, Josemar; MENEGHETTI, Tarc\uc0\u237{}sio. TRANSNACIONALIDADE RECONHECIMENTO DO OUTRO: IMPLICA\uc0\u199{}\uc0\u213{}ES PARA A PRODU\uc0\u199{}\uc0\u195{}O DO DIREITO. {\b{}Revista Brasileira de Filosofia do Direito}, v. 5, n. 2, p. 142\uc0\u8211{}158, 20 dez. 2019. \
SOHONI, Deenesh. Unsuitable Suitors: Anti-Miscegenation Laws, Naturalization Laws, and the Construction of Asian Identities. {\b{}Law & Society Review}, v. 41, n. 3, p. 587\uc0\u8211{}618, 2007. \
SOLDANI, Simonetta. {\b{}Italiane! Appartenenza nazionale e cittadinanza negli scritti di donne dell\uc0\u8217{}Ottocento}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Viella, 2002. p. 85\uc0\u8211{}124\
SOLEIL, Sylvain. Le Code civil de 1804 a-t-il \uc0\u233{}t\uc0\u233{} con\uc0\u231{}u comme un mod\uc0\u232{}le juridique pour les nations? {\b{}forum historiae iuris}, 4 mar. 2005. \
SONTAG, Ricardo. \uc0\u8220{}A relatividade pr\uc0\u243{}pria do conceito de ultrage publico ao pudor ou de offensa aos bons costumes\uc0\u8221{}. Hist\uc0\u243{}ria da criminaliza\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o da pornografia (e outras obscenidades) no Brasil (1830-1923). {\b{}Revista de Historia del Derecho}, v. 62, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}50, jul. 2021. \
SOUZA, Fl\uc0\u225{}via Meurer. APLICA\uc0\u199{}\uc0\u195{}O DO TRATADO DE AMIZADE PARA A PR\uc0\u193{}TICA DA ADVOCACIA NO BRASIL E EM PORTUGAL E SUA EXPANS\uc0\u195{}O PARA A UNI\uc0\u195{}O EUROPEIA. 2018. \
SPENCER, Anne Garlin. The legal position of married women. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
SPIRO, Peter J. A New International Law of Citizenship. {\b{}The American Journal of International Law}, v. 105, n. 4, p. 694\uc0\u8211{}746, 2011a. \
SPIRO, Peter J. A New International Law of Citizenship. {\b{}American Journal of International Law}, v. 105, n. 4, p. 694\uc0\u8211{}746, out. 2011b. \
SPIRO, Peter J.; BOSNIAK, Linda. An Emerging International Law of Citizenship? {\b{}Proceedings of the Annual Meeting (American Society of International Law)}, v. 101, p. 89\uc0\u8211{}94, 2007. \
STEENBERGEN, Bart. {\b{}The Condition of Citizenship}. London: {\i{}[S.n.]}. \
STERN, Edited by Simon; MAR, Maksymilian Del; MEYLER, and Bernadette (ORGS.). {\b{}The Oxford Handbook of Law and Humanities}. Oxford, New York: Oxford University Press, 2020. \
STERN, Simon; DEL MAR, Maksymilian; MEYLER, Bernadette (ORGS.). {\b{}The Oxford Handbook of Law and Humanities}. 1. ed. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Oxford University Press, 2019. \
STOCQUART, Emile. De la Nationalite d\uc0\u8217{}une Anglaise qui a Epouse un Francais ou un Belge. {\b{}Journal du Droit International Prive et de la Jurisprudence Comparee}, v. 34, n. 3\uc0\u8211{}4, p. 301\uc0\u8211{}306, 1907. \
STOLCKE, Verena; WOLFSON, Leandro. La \uc0\u8220{}naturaleza\uc0\u8221{} de la nacionalidad. {\b{}Desarrollo Econ\uc0\u243{}mico}, v. 40, n. 157, p. 23\uc0\u8211{}43, 2000. \
STONE, Elizabeth. Infants, Lunatics and Married Women: Equitable Protection in Garcia v National Australia Bank. {\b{}The Modern Law Review}, v. 62, n. 4, p. 604\uc0\u8211{}609, 1999. \
STOPLER, Gila. Women as the Bearers of the Nation: Between Liberal and Ethnic Citizenship. {\b{}papers.ssrn.com}, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
STRAMIGNONI, Igor. Figuring out justice in dark times: on law, history, and the visual. {\b{}Law and Humanities}, v. 17, n. 1, p. 139\uc0\u8211{}172, 2 jan. 2023. \
STRATTON, Lisa C. The Right to Have Rights: Gender Discrimination in Nationality Laws Note. {\b{}Minnesota Law Review}, v. 77, n. 1, p. 195\uc0\u8211{}240, 1993 1992. \
STRETTON, Tim. Married Women and the Law in England since the Eighteenth Century. {\b{}L\uc0\u8217{}Homme}, v. 14, n. 1, jan. 2003. \
{\b{}Studies in Iconology: Humanistic Themes in the Art of the Renaissance | Erwin Panofsky | download on Z-Library}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
SUCHON, Gabrielle; STANTON, Domna C.; WILKIN, Rebecca M. {\b{}A Woman Who Defends All the Persons of Her Sex: Selected Philosophical and Moral Writings}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: University of Chicago Press, 2010. \
{\b{}Suffragette Action - National Portrait Gallery}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.npg.org.uk/whatson/firstworldwarcentenary/explore/gallery-stories/suffragette-action>. Acesso em: 12 out. 2025. \
{\b{}Susan Buck-Morss \uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u160{}Texts \uc0\u8212{} Visual Empire}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.susanbuckmorss.info/text/visual-empire/>. Acesso em: 29 dez. 2025a. \
{\b{}Susan Buck-Morss \uc0\u8212{}\uc0\u160{}Texts \uc0\u8212{} Visual Empire}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.susanbuckmorss.info/text/visual-empire/?utm_source=chatgpt.com>. Acesso em: 28 ago. 2025b. \
TABILI, Laura. Outsiders in the Land of Their Birth: Exogamy, Citizenship, and Identity in War and Peace. {\b{}Journal of British Studies}, v. 44, n. 4, p. 796\uc0\u8211{}815, 2005. \
TADEU, Tomaz; HARAWAY, Donna; KUNZRU, Hari. {\b{}Antropologia do ciborgue: As vertigens do p\uc0\u243{}s-humano}. Belo Horizonte, MG: Aut\uc0\u234{}ntica, 2025. \
TALLGREN, Immi (ORG.). {\b{}Portraits of Women in International Law: New Names and Forgotten Faces?} New York: Oxford University Press, 2023. \
TALLGREN, Immi. Author\uc0\u8217{}s response \uc0\u8211{} the dream of \uc0\u8216{}the feminist history of international law\uc0\u8217{}. {\b{}Cambridge Review of International Affairs}, v. 38, n. 2, p. 253\uc0\u8211{}256, 4 mar. 2025. \
TARDIVEL, \uc0\u201{}milie. Qu\uc0\u8217{}est-ce qu\uc0\u8217{}une nation\uc0\u8239{}? {\b{}\uc0\u201{}tudes}, v. Octobre, n. 10, p. 53\uc0\u8211{}64, 2016. \
TERMO DE RECIPROCIDADE BRASIL E PORTUGAL | RECIMA21 - Revista Cient\uc0\u237{}fica Multidisciplinar - ISSN 2675-6218. 28 nov. 2021. \
{\b{}The Art of Law}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Stefan\uc0\u160{}Huygebaert\uc0\u160{}\uc0\u183{} Georges\uc0\u160{}Martyn\uc0\u160{} Vanessa\uc0\u160{}Paumen\uc0\u160{}\uc0\u183{} Eric\uc0\u160{}Bousmar\uc0\u160{} Xavier\uc0\u160{}Rousseaux, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
{\b{}The Cambridge Handbook of Sociocultural Psychology}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.cambridge.org/core/books/the-cambridge-handbook-of-sociocultural-psychology/E3849436A9F537413EBE81023A3DED40>. Acesso em: 2 jan. 2026. \
{\b{}THE HERETICS\uc0\u8239{}: Directed by Joan Braderman, Produced by Crescent Diamond}. , {\i{}[S.d.]}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <http://heresiesfilmproject.org/>. Acesso em: 21 set. 2025\
{\b{}The Human Right to Citizenship: A Slippery Concept | Rhoda E. Howard-Hassmann (editor); Margaret Walton-Roberts (editor) | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://zlibrary-br.se/book/25981611/f81fe8>. Acesso em: 23 out. 2023. \
{\b{}The Imaginary Institution of Society | Cornelius Castoriadis | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://1lib.sk/book/901664/b8a564/the-imaginary-institution-of-society.html>. Acesso em: 24 ago. 2025. \
{\b{}The Internet Classics Archive | The Enchiridion by Epictetus}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://classics.mit.edu/Epictetus/epicench.html?utm_source=chatgpt.com>. Acesso em: 16 out. 2025. \
{\b{}The Legality of The Image: Costas Douzinas | PDF | Immanuel Kant | Icon}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.scribd.com/document/521499317/The-Modern-Law-Review-Volume-63-issue-6-2000-doi-10-1111-1468-2230-00296-Costas-Douzinas-The-Legality-of-the-Image-1>. Acesso em: 2 nov. 2025. \
The Limits of Gendered Citizenship. {\b{}Routledge}, 2010. \
{\b{}The Making of the Civil Codes}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. \
{\b{}The Oxford Edition of Blackstone\uc0\u8217{}s: Commentaries on the Laws of England: Book I: Of the Rights of Persons | William Blackstone, David Lemmings | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://lib-g3hu3qvs2h2uluz6rxm7b24i.booksc.eu/book/2873067/a0b1b2>. Acesso em: 31 jul. 2023a. \
{\b{}The Oxford Edition of Blackstone\uc0\u8217{}s: Commentaries on the Laws of England: Book I: Of the Rights of Persons | William Blackstone, David Lemmings | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://lib-g3hu3qvs2h2uluz6rxm7b24i.booksc.eu/book/2873067/a0b1b2>. Acesso em: 31 jul. 2023b. \
{\b{}The Petition for Reform of the Married Women\uc0\u8217{}s Property Law}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.erinsatie.com/blog/the-petition-for-reform-of-the-married-womens-property-law>. Acesso em: 13 jan. 2024. \
{\b{}The Political Philosophy of Hannah Arendt - 1st Edition - Maurizio Pas}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.routledge.com/The-Political-Philosophy-of-Hannah-Arendt/dEntreves/p/book/9780415087919>. Acesso em: 7 nov. 2023. \
{\b{}The Portrayal of Women Throughout History}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://artsandculture.google.com/exhibit/0058/WwIyY2IMPqeoKw>. Acesso em: 10 jan. 2026. \
{\b{}The Project Gutenberg eBook of International Law Vol. I, by Oppenheim, Lassa}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.gutenberg.org/files/41046/41046-h/41046-h.htm>. Acesso em: 17 out. 2025. \
{\b{}The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Modern Woman\uc0\u8217{}s Rights Movement, by Kaethe Schirmacher.} Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://readingroo.ms/3/3/7/0/33700/33700-h/33700-h.htm>. Acesso em: 5 set. 2025. \
{\b{}{\i{}The Raft of the Medusa}}. , 17 set. 2025. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
{\b{}{\i{}The Republic} (Daumier)}. , 16 ago. 2025. (Nota t\uc0\u233{}cnica).\
The Role of Colonialism in Creating and Perpetuating Statelessness in Southern Africa | African Human Mobility Review. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
{\b{}The Royal Image: Illustrations of the Grandes Chroniques de France, 1274\uc0\u8211{}1422 (California Studies in the History of Art) - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/md5/ad23fb3d2d86f61b945e1e42ec1b18a5>. Acesso em: 16 set. 2025. \
{\b{}The Statue of Liberty (Symbols of American Freedom) | Hilarie Staton | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://pt.z-library.se/book/881761/deab5e/the-statue-of-liberty-symbols-of-american-freedom.html>. Acesso em: 1 maio. 2024. \
{\b{}The Traffic in Women: Notes on the \uc0\u8220{}Political Economy\uc0\u8221{} of Sex in: Toward an Anthropology of Women | Gayle Rubin | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://pt.singlelogin.re/book/5549984/335c97/the-traffic-in-women-notes-on-the-political-economy-of-sex-in-toward-an-anthropology-of-women.html?ts=2117>. Acesso em: 18 mar. 2024. \
TH\uc0\u201{}BAUD, Fran\uc0\u231{}oise; DUBY, Series edited by Georges; PERROT, Michelle (ORGS.). {\b{}History of Women in the West, Volume V: Toward a Cultural Identity in the Twentieth Century:} Cambridge, MA: Belknap Press, 1996. \
{\b{}There is no stream of consciousness}. {\b{}Dr Susan Blackmore}, 25 mar. 2002a. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.susanblackmore.uk/articles/there-is-no-stream-of-consciousness/>. Acesso em: 14 dez. 2025\
{\b{}There is no stream of consciousness}. {\b{}Dr Susan Blackmore}, 25 mar. 2002b. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.susanblackmore.uk/articles/there-is-no-stream-of-consciousness/>. Acesso em: 24 nov. 2025\
THIESSE, Anne-Marie. {\b{}La Cr\uc0\u233{}ation des identit\uc0\u233{}s nationales. Europe, XVIIIe-XXe si\uc0\u232{}cle}. Paris: Le Seuil, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
THRELKELD, Megan. The Pan American Conference of Women, 1922: Successful Suffragists Turn to International Relations. {\b{}Diplomatic History}, v. 31, n. 5, p. 801\uc0\u8211{}828, 2007. \
TIMES, The Brussels. {\b{}Who was Marie Popelin, the Brussels woman honoured by Google today?} Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.brusselstimes.com/145745/who-was-marie-popelin-the-brussels-woman-honoured-by-googles-today-ulb-first-female-lawyer-belgium-feminist-pioneer-ligue-belge-du-droit-des-femmes-conseil-national-des-femmes-belge-emilie-timmermans>. Acesso em: 5 set. 2025. \
TIMES, Trinity. {\b{}Virginia Woolf: The Myth of Female Patriotism}. , 30 nov. 2022. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://trintimes.ca/arts/virginia-woolf-the-myth-of-female-patriotism/>. Acesso em: 15 out. 2023\
TIROSH, Yofi. {\b{}A Name of One\uc0\u8217{}s Own: Gender and Symbolic Legal Personhood in the European Court of Human Rights}. Rochester, NY, 12 mar. 2010. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=1569587>. Acesso em: 22 out. 2023\
{\b{}Totem e Tabu: Alguns Pontos de Concord\uc0\u226{}ncia entre a Vida Mental dos Selvagens e dos Neur\uc0\u243{}ticos}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://edisciplinas.usp.br/pluginfile.php/5692479/mod_resource/content/1/Tabu_FREUD%2C%20Sigmund.%20Obras%20Completas%20%28Cia.%20das%20Letras%29%20Vol.%2011%20%281912%201914%29.pdf>. Acesso em: 14 jan. 2024. \
TOWNS, Ann. The Inter-American Commission of Women and Women\uc0\u8217{}s Suffrage, 1920\uc0\u8212{}1945. {\b{}Journal of Latin American Studies}, v. 42, n. 4, p. 779\uc0\u8211{}807, 2010. \
{\b{}Tratado de Amizade, Coopera\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o e Consulta entre a Rep\uc0\u250{}blica Federativa do Brasil e a Rep\uc0\u250{}blica Portuguesa | Consulado Geral de Portugal em S\uc0\u227{}o Paulo}. , {\i{}[S.d.]}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://consuladoportugalsp.org.br/dados-sobre-portugal/tratados-e-acordos-entre-portugal-e-brasil/tratado-de-amizade-cooperacao-e-consulta-entre-a-republica-federativa-do-brasil-e-a-republica-portuguesa/>. Acesso em: 23 set. 2023\
UNIVERSIDAD AUT\uc0\u211{}NOMA DI MADRID. {\b{}Spatial and Temporal Dimensions for Legal History}. 1. ed. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Max Planck Institute for European Legal History, 2016. v. 6\
{\b{}University of Toronto Press - Women and the Limits of Citizenship in the French Revolution}. {\b{}University of Toronto Press}, {\i{}[S.d.]}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://utorontopress.com/9781442683556/women-and-the-limits-of-citizenship-in-the-french-revolution>. Acesso em: 9 abr. 2024\
VAKALOPOULOS, Konstantinos. Shedding Some (More) Light in Bourdieu\uc0\u8217{}s Habitus and Doxa: A Socio-Phenomenological Approach. {\b{}Journal for the Theory of Social Behaviour}, v. 53, n. 2, p. 255\uc0\u8211{}270, 2023. \
VALLAT, Frank A. The Nationality of Married Women. {\b{}Canadian Bar Review}, v. 12, n. 5, p. 283, 1934. \
VAN DER BAAREN, Lucas Jan; VINK, Maarten Peter. {\b{}Modes of acquisition and loss of citizenship around the world\uc0\u8239{}: comparative typology and main patterns in 2020}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: European University Institute, 2021. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://cadmus.eui.eu/handle/1814/73267>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023.\
VAN ECK, Caroline. Art, Agency and Living Presence. {\b{}Art, Agency and Living Presence}, p. 1, 2015. \
VAN OERS, Ricky; DE HART, Betty; GROENENDIJK, Kees. The Netherlands. {\i{}In}: GROENENDIJK, Kees {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 2: Country Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006. p. 391\uc0\u8211{}434. \
VAN OERS, Ricky; DE HART, Betty; GROENENDIJK, Kees. {\b{}Country report: the Netherlands}. {\i{}[S.l.: S.n.]}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://cadmus.eui.eu/handle/1814/19629>. Acesso em: 31 jan. 2023.\
VAN WAAS, Laura. {\b{}A Comparative Analysis of Nationality Laws in the MENA Region}. Rochester, NY, 9 set. 2014. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://papers.ssrn.com/abstract=2493718>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023\
VAN WAAS, Laura; JAGHAI, Sangita. All Citizens are Created Equal, but Some are More Equal Than Others. {\b{}Netherlands International Law Review}, v. 65, n. 3, p. 413\uc0\u8211{}430, out. 2018. \
VANDENBOGAERDE, Sebastiaan {\i{}et al.} {\b{}(Wo)men in legal history}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Centre d\uc0\u8217{}Histoire Judiciaire, 2016. \
VANDEZANDE, Niels; SCHROERS, Jessica. Originality in Belgian Civil Law: Comparing the Code Napoleon with Book 8 of the New Belgian Civil Code. {\b{}Digital Evidence and Electronic Signature Law Review}, v. 16, p. 25\uc0\u8211{}39, 2019. \
VARELLA, Marcelo D.; MACHADO, Nat\uc0\u225{}lia Paes Leme. A dignidade da mulher no direito internacional: o Brasil face \uc0\u224{} Comiss\uc0\u227{}o Interamericana de Direitos Humanos. v. 49, {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
VERDERY, Katherine. Whither \uc0\u8220{}Nation\uc0\u8221{} and \uc0\u8220{}Nationalism\uc0\u8221{}? {\b{}Daedalus}, v. 122, n. 3, p. 37\uc0\u8211{}46, 1993. \
VIAL-DUMAS, Manuel. Parents, Children, and Law: {\i{}Patria Potestas} and Emancipation in the Christian Mediterranean during Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages. {\b{}Journal of Family History}, v. 39, n. 4, p. 307\uc0\u8211{}329, out. 2014a. \
VIAL-DUMAS, Manuel. Parents, Children, and Law: {\i{}Patria Potestas} and Emancipation in the Christian Mediterranean during Late Antiquity and the Early Middle Ages. {\b{}Journal of Family History}, v. 39, n. 4, p. 307\uc0\u8211{}329, out. 2014b. \
{\b{}Viewer - Anna\uc0\u8217{}s Archive}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://annas-archive.org/view?url=https%3A//hxd7ms.org/d3/x/1758002704/20000/g4/libgenrs_nonfiction/libgenrs_nonfiction/2977000/abc65f45ed19091ac1064a1dc2546bef~/fprYNT2yF9xzRQH1VGYmCQ/Allegories%2520of%2520empire%2520%253A%2520the%2520figure%2520of%2520woman%2520in%2520the%2520colonial%2520--%2520Jenny%2520Sharpe%2520--%2520Minneapolis%252C%2520Minnesota%252C%25201993%2520--%2520Minneapolis%2520%253A%2520University%2520of%2520Minnesota%2520--%25209780816620593%2520--%2520abc65f45ed19091ac1064a1dc2546bef%2520--%2520Anna%25E2%2580%2599s%2520Archive.pdf>. Acesso em: 16 set. 2025. \
VINCENTIS, Paulo de. {\b{}Pintura hist\uc0\u243{}rica no Sal\uc0\u227{}o do Centen\uc0\u225{}rio da Independ\uc0\u234{}ncia do Brasil}. disserta\uc0\u231{}\uc0\u227{}o\uc0\u8212{}{\i{}[S.l.]}: Universidade de S\uc0\u227{}o Paulo, 6 nov. 2014.\
VINK, Maarten Peter {\i{}et al.} {\b{}GLOBALCIT citizenship law dataset (2020)}. European University Institute, , 2021. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://cadmus.eui.eu/handle/1814/73190>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023\
VINK, Maarten Peter; OLIVIER, Vonk. {\b{}Global databases on modes of acquisition and loss of citizenship (2013-2016 data)}. European University Institute, , 2021. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://cadmus.eui.eu/handle/1814/72998>. Acesso em: 30 jan. 2023\
VLOSSAK, Elizabeth. {\b{}Marianne or Germania?: Nationalizing Women in Alsace, 1870-1946}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Oxford University Press, 2010. \
Vol 2 No 9 (2014): Visiocracy. Image and Form of Law | Teoria e Critica della Regolazione Sociale / Theory and Criticism of Social Regulation. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
{\b{}Vol 2 No 9 (2014): Visiocracy. Image and Form of Law | Teoria e Critica della Regolazione Sociale / Theory and Criticism of Social Regulation}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.mimesisjournals.com/ojs/index.php/tcrs/issue/view/25>. Acesso em: 31 ago. 2025. \
WADE, E. C. S. British Nationality Act, 1948. {\b{}Journal of Comparative Legislation and International Law}, v. 30, n. 3/4, p. 67\uc0\u8211{}75, 1948. \
WAGNER, Anne; SHERWIN, Richard K. (ORGS.). {\b{}Law, Culture and Visual Studies}. Dordrecht: Springer Netherlands, 2014. \
WAITE, Linda J.; SPINE, Glenna D. Young Women\uc0\u8217{}s Transition to Marriage. {\b{}Demography}, v. 18, n. 4, p. 681\uc0\u8211{}694, 1 nov. 1981. \
WAIZBORT, Leopoldo. {\b{}A passagem do tr\uc0\u234{}s ao um}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Editora Cosac Naify, 2014. \
WALDRAUCH, Harald. Statistics on acquisition and loss of nationality. {\i{}In}: WALDRAUCH, Harald {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006a. p. 269\uc0\u8211{}316. \
WALDRAUCH, Harald. Rights of expatriates, multiple citizens and restricted citizenship for certain nationals. {\i{}In}: WALDRAUCH, Harald {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006b. p. 359\uc0\u8211{}384. \
WALDRAUCH, Harald. Methodology for comparing acquisition and loss of nationality. {\i{}In}: WALDRAUCH, Harald {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006c. p. 105\uc0\u8211{}120. \
WALDRAUCH, Harald. Loss of nationality. {\i{}In}: WALDRAUCH, Harald {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006d. p. 183\uc0\u8211{}220. \
WALDRAUCH, Harald. Acquisition of nationality. {\i{}In}: WALDRAUCH, Harald {\i{}et al.} (Orgs.). {\b{}Acquisition and Loss of Nationality|Volume 1: Comparative Analyses}. Policies and Trends in 15 European Countries. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Amsterdam University Press, 2006e. p. 121\uc0\u8211{}182. \
WALLACH SCOTT, Joan. Gender: Still a Useful Category of Analysis? {\b{}Diogenes}, v. 57, n. 1, p. 7\uc0\u8211{}14, 1 fev. 2010. \
WARDLEWORTH, Nina. The Role of French-Arab Women in Constructing a Postcolonial France. {\b{}Al-Raida Journal}, 1 jan. 1970. \
WARING, Marilyn. Construction and protection of women\uc0\u8217{}s reproductive role. {\b{}ALTERNATIVE LAW JOURNAL}, v. 18, n. 3, 1993. \
WARNER, Marina. {\b{}Monuments & maidens\uc0\u8239{}: the allegory of the female form}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: New York\uc0\u8239{}: Atheneum, 1985. \
WARNER, Marina. ETERNALLY FEMALE. {\b{}The New York Times}, 18 maio 1986. \
WARREN, RICHARD. {\b{}Tacitus and nationalism in nineteenth-century art}. Doctoral\uc0\u8212{}{\i{}[S.l.]}: Durham University, 2014.\
{\b{}Wayback Machine}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://web.archive.org/web/20200411120619/https://www.um.edu.mt/library/oar/bitstream/123456789/30918/1/GHonnella_-_A_British-Styled_Allegory_fo.pdf>. Acesso em: 19 nov. 2025. \
WEIL, P. The history and memory of discrimination in the domain of French nationality: The case of Jews and Algerian Muslims 1. {\i{}In}: 2005. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.semanticscholar.org/paper/The-history-and-memory-of-discrimination-in-the-of-Weil/a79f9cbd2b765266614d8befb45baced6e7d1438>. Acesso em: 13 abr. 2023\
WEIL, Patrick. Nationalit\uc0\u233{}\uc0\u160{}: l\uc0\u8217{}originalit\uc0\u233{} fran\uc0\u231{}aise. {\b{}\uc0\u201{}tudes}, v. 398, n. 3, p. 321\uc0\u8211{}331, 2003. \
WEIL, Patrick. Histoire et m\uc0\u233{}moire des discriminations en mati\uc0\u232{}re de nationalit\uc0\u233{} fran\uc0\u231{}aise. {\b{}Vingti\uc0\u232{}me Si\uc0\u232{}cle. Revue d\uc0\u8217{}histoire}, v. 84, n. 4, p. 5\uc0\u8211{}22, 2004. \
WEIL, Patrick. {\b{}How to Be French: Nationality in the Making since 1789}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Duke University Press, 2008. \
WEIL, Patrick. L\uc0\u8217{}acc\uc0\u232{}s \uc0\u224{} la citoyennet\uc0\u233{}\uc0\u8239{}: une comparaison de vingt-cinq lois sur la nationalit\uc0\u233{}. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
{\b{}Welcome}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://exhibits.lafayette.edu/s/art-and-power/page/welcome>. Acesso em: 2 jan. 2026. \
{\b{}What does it mean to be a woman? Female Ideology, Editorial Strategy and Historical Erasure: Re-examining the Role of the Literary Wife in Nineteenth-Century Russia.} {\b{}Retrospect Journal}, 16 fev. 2025. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://retrospectjournal.com/2025/02/16/what-does-it-mean-to-be-a-woman-female-ideology-editorial-strategy-and-historical-erasure-re-examining-the-role-of-the-literary-wife-in-nineteenth-century-russia/>. Acesso em: 17 out. 2025\
{\b{}What Is a People? | Alain Badiou, Pierre Bourdieu, Judith Butler, Georges Didi-Huberman, Sadri Khiari, Jacques Ranci\uc0\u232{}re | download on Z-Library}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://z-lib.gl/book/2720060/d4479b/what-is-a-people.html>. Acesso em: 11 dez. 2024. \
{\b{}WhatsApp Web}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://web.whatsapp.com/>. Acesso em: 26 out. 2023. \
WHELAN, Frederick G. Citizenship and the Right to Leave. {\b{}The American Political Science Review}, v. 75, n. 3, p. 636\uc0\u8211{}653, 1981. \
{\b{}When Giorgio Vasari invented iconographies: the Allegory of Patience}. Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.finestresullarte.info/en/works-and-artists/when-giorgio-vasari-invented-iconographies-the-allegory-of-patience>. Acesso em: 2 jan. 2026. \
WHITAKER, Jay Ernest. Aesthetic representations of history\uc0\u8239{}: the question of the national allegory. 19 nov. 2024. \
WHITE, Robin M.; HAMPSON, Fran\uc0\u231{}oise J. British Nationality Law: Proposed Changes. {\b{}The International and Comparative Law Quarterly}, v. 30, n. 1, p. 247\uc0\u8211{}259, 1981. \
{\b{}Who is Malka Germania?} Dispon\uc0\u237{}vel em: <https://www.jmberlin.de/en/interview-yael-bartana-who-is-malka-germania>. Acesso em: 16 fev. 2025. \
WILCOX, Francis O. THE UNITED NATIONS IN THE MAINSTREAM OF HISTORY. {\b{}Proceedings of the American Society of International Law at Its Annual Meeting (1921- 1969)}, v. 50, p. 187\uc0\u8211{}198, 1969. \
WILLIAMS, David W. British Passports and the Right to Travel. {\b{}The International and Comparative Law Quarterly}, v. 23, n. 3, p. 642\uc0\u8211{}656, 1974. \
WILLIAMS, Glanville L. The Legal Unity of Husband and Wife. {\b{}The Modern Law Review}, v. 10, n. 1, p. 16\uc0\u8211{}31, 1947. \
WINKLER, Martin M. {\b{}The Roman Salute: Cinema, History, Ideology}. Columbus: The Ohio State University Press, 2009. \
WINTLE, M. J. \uc0\u8220{}Visual Representations of Europe in the Nineteenth Century: the age of nationalism and imperialism\uc0\u8221{}. 2006a. \
WINTLE, Michael. {\b{}Image into Identity: Constructing and Assigning Identity in a Culture of Modernity}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: BRILL, 2006b. \
WINTLE, Michael J. (ORG.). {\b{}Image into Identity: Constructing and Assigning Identity in a Culture of Modernity}. Leiden Boston: BRILL, 2006c. \
WINTLE, Michael J. Imagining Europe. {\i{}[S.d.]}. \
WOLODKIEWICZ, Witold. \uc0\u171{}\uc0\u8239{}Livre pr\uc0\u233{}liminaire\uc0\u8239{}\uc0\u187{} \uc0\u171{}\uc0\u8239{}titre pr\uc0\u233{}liminaire\uc0\u8239{}\uc0\u187{} dans le projet et dans le texte d\uc0\u233{}finitif du Code Napol\uc0\u233{}on. {\b{}Revue historique de droit fran\uc0\u231{}ais et \uc0\u233{}tranger (1922-)}, v. 83, n. 3, p. 441\uc0\u8211{}455, 2005. \
WO\uc0\u321{}ODKIEWICZ, Witold. \uc0\u171{}\uc0\u8239{}Les maximes anciennes sont l\uc0\u8217{}esprit des si\uc0\u232{}cles\uc0\u8239{}\uc0\u187{} Jean-\uc0\u201{}tienne-Marie Portalis et la l\uc0\u233{}gislation napol\uc0\u233{}onienne. {\b{}Revue historique de droit fran\uc0\u231{}ais et \uc0\u233{}tranger (1922-)}, v. 92, n. 1, p. 123\uc0\u8211{}130, 2014. \
{\b{}Women and Gender in the Early Modern Low Countries}. {\i{}[S.l.]}: Brill, 2019. v. 217\
WOOLDRIDGE, Frank. The revision of United Kingdom nationality law. {\b{}New Community}, v. 8, n. 1\uc0\u8211{}2, p. 61\uc0\u8211{}75, mar. 1980. \
WRAY, Helena. The Aliens Act 1905 and the Immigration Dilemma. {\b{}Journal of Law and Society}, v. 33, n. 2, p. 302\uc0\u8211{}323, 2006. \
YAMGUCHI, Zentralarchiv; QUETELET, Gigi. A Comparative Study of Post-Marriage Nationality of Women in Legal Systems of Different Countries. {\b{}International Journal of Social Science Research and Review}, v. 3, n. 3, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}8, 12 set. 2020a. \
YAMGUCHI, Zentralarchiv; QUETELET, Gigi. A Comparative Study of Post-Marriage Nationality of Women in Legal Systems of Different Countries. {\b{}International Journal of Social Science Research and Review}, v. 3, n. 3, p. 1\uc0\u8211{}8, 12 set. 2020b. \
YOUNG, Iris Marion. Polity and Group Difference: A Critique of the Ideal of Universal Citizenship. {\b{}Ethics}, v. 99, n. 2, p. 250\uc0\u8211{}274, 1989. \
YOUNG, Iris Marion. Gender as Seriality: Thinking about Women as a Social Collective. {\b{}Signs}, v. 19, n. 3, p. 713\uc0\u8211{}738, 1994. \
YOUNG, Iris Marion. Mothers, Citizenship, and Independence: A Critique of Pure Family Values. {\b{}Ethics}, v. 105, n. 3, p. 535\uc0\u8211{}556, 1995. \
YUVAL-DAVIS, Nira. Women and the biological reproduction of \uc0\u8220{}the nation\uc0\u8221{}. {\b{}Women\uc0\u8217{}s Studies International Forum}, v. 19, n. 1\uc0\u8211{}2, p. 17\uc0\u8211{}24, jan. 1996. \
ZAHER, Claudia. When a Woman\uc0\u8217{}s Marital Status Determined Her Legal Status: A Research Guide on the Common Law Doctrine of Coverture. {\b{}Law Library Journal}, v. 94, n. 3, p. 459\uc0\u8211{}486, 2002a. \
ZAHER, Claudia. When a Woman\uc0\u8217{}s Marital Status Determined Her Legal Status: A Research Guide on the Common Law Doctrine of Coverture. {\b{}Law Library Journal}, v. 94, n. 3, p. 459\uc0\u8211{}486, 2002b. \
ZICHI, Paola. The space in-between: the landmark Portraits of Women in International Law and its critique. {\b{}Cambridge Review of International Affairs}, v. 38, n. 2, p. 238\uc0\u8211{}246, 4 mar. 2025. \
ZULIANI, Dario. {\b{}Concordanze lessicali italiane e francesi del Codice Napoleone / Dario Zuliani}. Firenze: Accademia Della Crusca, 2018. \
}